Feng Yi, also known as Gongsun, was a native of Fucheng County, Yingchuan County.
He loves reading and is familiar with Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals and Sun Tzu's Art of War.
When the Han army rose, Feng Yi supervised the five counties as a county magistrate, and guarded the city together with Miao Meng, the magistrate of Fucheng County, to resist the Han army for Wang Mang.
Guangwu took over the territory of Yingchuan, unable to attack his father's city, and stationed troops in Dongxiang.
Feng Yiwei traveled to the county and was captured by Han soldiers.
At that time, Feng Yi's cousin Feng Xiao and fellow county residents Ding Jinlin and Lu Yan all followed Guangwu, so they jointly recommended Feng Yi and was summoned by Guangwu.
Feng Yi said: My role alone is not enough to make people stronger or weaker.
There is an old mother in the city who is willing to go back and occupy five cities to repay her kindness with her service. Guangwu said: OK. Feng Yi went back and said to Miao Meng: "Now all the generals are strong men, most of them are tyrannical and tyrannical. Only General Liu does not plunder wherever he goes."
Judging from his words and deeds, he is not a mediocre person, so he can surrender to him. Miao Meng said: I live and die with you, and I respectfully listen to your opinions. When Guangwu returned to Wan in the south, more than ten people from Gengshi generals led their troops to attack the father city, but Feng Yi could not hold on. When Guangwu became the commander of the Sili school and passed by the father city, Feng Yi and others opened the door and offered cattle and wine to welcome him.
Guangwu ordered Feng Yi to be the principal for the time being, and Miao Meng to be the principal.
Feng Yi then recommended Yaoqi, Shushou, Duan Jian, Zuo Long and others from Tongyi. Guangwu all made them his governors and followed him to Luoyang.
Gengshi wanted to send Guangwu to capture Hebei several times, but all the generals thought it was impossible.
At this time, Cao Xu, the son of Cao Jing, the prime minister of the left, was the minister, and the father and son were in power. Feng Yi persuaded Guangwu to make a good marriage with them.
Later, when he crossed the Yellow River and headed north, Cao Xu helped him a lot.
Since Guangwu's brother Bosheng was killed by Gengshi, Guangwu did not dare to show his sadness. He often lived alone, did not eat food and wine, and often cried on his pillow and mat.
Feng Yi kowtowed to Guangwu alone to comfort him and comfort him.
Guangwu stopped him and said, "Don't talk nonsense." Feng Yi therefore took the opportunity again and said to Guangwu: "The whole world suffers from Wang Mang and has been thinking about the Han Dynasty for a long time."
Now Gengshi's generals are rampaging and tyrannizing the civilians, plundering wherever they go, leaving the people disappointed and unable to support anyone. Now the Lord can do his own thing without asking for instructions and perform kindness. When the Jie and Zhou Dynasties were in chaos, we saw the contribution of King Tang and Wu of Shang Dynasty. When people are hungry and thirsty for a long time, they can easily be full. Officials should be dispatched urgently, prisoners should be released after trial, widows should be raised, and those who flee and surrender should be exempted from crime. Secretly, he submitted to Guangwu a list of those who were of the same mind as the two thousand stone chief officials and who were not attached to him.
When Wang Lang got up, Guangwu galloped southeast from Ji County, traveling day and night, and arrived at Wuluoting in Raoyang County.
At this time, the weather was very cold and everyone was hungry and tired, so Feng Yi offered bean porridge.
Early the next morning, Guangwu said to the generals: I got Feng Yidou porridge yesterday, and my hunger and cold were relieved. When they arrived in Nangong County, there was a strong wind and rain. Guangwu drove the car into the empty house beside the road. Feng Yi held the firewood, Deng Yu burned the firewood, and Guangwu turned to the stove to bake his clothes.
Feng Yi entered the wheat rice and dodder shoulder again.
So he crossed the Hutuo River to Xindu and worshiped Feng Yi as a partial general.
Thus he defeated Wang Lang and was granted the title of Marquis Ying.
Feng Yi was a humble man who did not boast about his achievements. When he met generals on the road, he often steered his car out of the way.
There are flags for advancing and retreating, and the military number is for order.
Every time they were stationed for a break, the generals would sit together to discuss their merits. Feng Yidu would hide under a tree. The army called him General Big Tree.
After Handan was defeated, some of the generals were replaced, each with his own subordinates.
The sergeants all said they would like to belong to General Dashu, and Guangwu valued Feng Yi from then on.
In addition, he defeated the Iron Legs in Beiping, and surrendered the Xiongnu to King Lin Guodun. He followed and pacified Hebei.
At this time, Gengshi sent Wuyin King Li Yi, Linqiu King Tian Li, Grand Sima Zhu Jun, and Baihu Duke Chen Qiao to command 300,000 troops to guard Luoyang together with Wu Bo, the prefect of Henan.
General Guangwu wanted to conquer Yanzhao in the north. Since there were no troops in Weijun and Hanoi, the city was intact, and the warehouses were abundant, he appointed Kou Xun as the governor of Hanoi and Feng Yi as the general Mengjin. He led the troops of the two counties on the edge of the Yellow River to join forces with Kou Xun to resist Zhu Tuna and others.
Feng Yi wrote to Li Yi and said: I heard that a mirror is used to see the shape, and the past can be used to explain the truth of today.
In the past, Weizi left the Yin and Shang Dynasties and entered the Zhou Dynasty, Xiang Bo rebelled against Chu and returned to the Han Dynasty, Zhou Bo welcomed the new king and deposed the young emperor, Huo Guangzun Xiaoxuan deposed Liu He, the king of Changyi.
They are all fearful of God and know their fate, and they have seen the signs of life and death, and the fact of ruin and prosperity, so they can succeed in a moment and make great achievements for eternity!
If Chang'an can still help, extend the time, be close to each other, and never be far away, how can you, Li Yi, live alone in a corner?
Now Chang'an is in chaos, Red Eyebrow is approaching the outskirts of the city, the princes are causing disasters, the ministers have their own agendas, the laws and regulations of the court have been extinct, the four directions are falling apart, and different surnames have arisen, so Guangwu does not shy away from hardships and runs Hebei.
Nowadays, there are many handsome men, and the people are popular. Although he looks like Qi Guigu Gongfu, it is not enough to describe him.
If you, Li Yi, could realize success or failure, make plans in time, and be like the mischievous Xiang Bo, you could achieve success and turn misfortunes into blessings. This would be the time.
If we wait until the fierce generals march in and the stern soldiers surround the city, even though we regret it, it will be too late.
At first, Li Yi and Guangwu first formed a pact and fell in love with each other. When Gengshi came to the throne, they jointly framed Bo Sheng.
Although he knew that Chang'an was already in danger, he wanted to surrender but felt uneasy.
He wrote back to Feng Yi and said: I originally planned to revitalize the Han Dynasty with Chief Guangwu, and we made a life-and-death agreement to plan success or failure together.
Now I am guarding Luoyang, you are guarding Mengjin, and we are both guarding key towns. This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, and we want to become close friends.
I only ask Shenda Guangwu, may he accept my strategy to help the country and the people. Li Yi stopped fighting with Feng Yi after he read the book, so Feng Yi was able to attack Tianjingguan in the north, capture the two Dang cities, and then go south to thirteen counties east of Chenggao in Henan. All the settlements were pacified, and more than 100,000 people surrendered.
He fought with Wu Bo in the countryside, defeated and beheaded Wu Bo, and killed more than 5,000 people. Li Yi closed the door and refused to save him.
When Feng Yi saw that Li Yi kept his promise, he reported it to Guangwu.
Guangwu deliberately revealed Li Yi's letter to let Zhu Kun know.
Zhu Tuna was angry and sent someone to assassinate Li Yi.
As a result, the people in the city were scattered, and many people left the city to surrender.
Zhu Tung then sent the rebellious general Su Mao to lead tens of thousands of people to attack Wen. Zhu Tung then led tens of thousands of people to attack Pingyang County to attack Feng Yi in succession.
Feng Yi sent his school lieutenant to lead the army, and joined forces with Kou Xun to attack Su Mao. Feng Yi therefore crossed the Yellow River to attack Zhu Jun, who escaped. Feng Yi pursued him to Luoyang and circled the city before returning.
After the proclamation was handed over and the documents were presented, all the generals came in to congratulate him and advised Guangwu to ascend the throne.
Guangwu summoned Feng Yi back to Gaochangyi to inquire about the news in all directions.
Feng Yi said: Zhang Xun and other three kings rebelled, Gengshi was defeated, and the world was left without a master. The worry of the country lies with the king.
We should listen to the opinions of everyone, for the sake of the country at the top and the people at the bottom. Guangwu said: Last night I dreamed of riding a red dragon to heaven. When I woke up, my heart was beating very hard. Feng Yi then fell to the ground and bowed again to congratulate him and said: "This is the influence of destiny on your spirit. The beating in your heart is the king's cautious personality."
Feng Yi discussed with the generals the issue of honorary titles. In the spring of the second year of Jianwu, Feng Yi was granted the title of Marquis of Yangxia. Feng Yi went to attack Yan Zhong and Zhao Gen, the thieves in Yangzhai, and defeated them.
He ordered Feng Yi to go home and go to the tomb to offer sacrifices. He ordered the Taizhong doctor to bring cattle and wine, and ordered the prefects, captains and other clans within two hundred miles to participate in the ceremony.
At this time, Chimei and Yancen violently disrupted the three auxiliaries, and the prefectures and counties supported their troops. The chief disciple Deng Yu could not calm down, so he sent Feng Yidai Deng Yu to attack.
Guangwu sent it to Henan and gave him a chariot and a seven-foot sword.
He ordered Feng Yi to say: The third auxiliary suffered the rebellion of Wang Mang and Gengshi, as well as the cruel treatment of Chimei and Yancen. The common people were in misery and had no place to rely on to appeal.
The purpose of conquering them now is not to seize land or destroy the city and massacre the soldiers and civilians in the city, but to quell the war and assemble the people.
The generals are not bad at fighting, but they are fond of robbing.
You are able to control the officials. I hope you will understand my will and do not let the counties suffer. Feng Yi kowtowed and accepted the order, leading his troops to the west. He spread his prestige everywhere he went. There were more than ten cases where Hongnong bandits were called generals, and they all led their troops to surrender to Feng Yi.
Feng Yi and Chimei met in Huayin. They resisted each other for more than sixty days and fought for dozens of rounds. Chimei surrendered Liu Shi, Wang Xuan and more than 5,000 people to Feng Yi.
In the spring of the third year of Jianwu, the envoys sent by Guangwu worshiped Feng Yi as the general for the expedition to the west.
It happened that Deng Yu and his cavalry general Deng Hong and others returned with troops and met Feng Yi. Deng Yu and Deng Hong asked Feng Yi to attack Chimei together.
Feng Yi said: I have been at odds with the thieves for dozens of days. Although I have repeatedly captured their heroes, there are still many people left. I can slowly lure them with kindness and trust, but it is difficult to defeat them quickly with troops.
Now the emperor has the generals stationed at Lianchi to block his way back east, while Feng Yi attacks the west and captures it in one fell swoop. This is a surefire plan. Deng Yu and Deng Hong refused.
Deng Hong fought with Chimei for many days, but Chimei pretended to be defeated, abandoned his baggage and fled.
The cart was loaded with soil and covered with beans. The soldiers were hungry and scrambled to get the beans for food.
Chimei led his troops back to attack Deng Hong, but Deng Hong's army collapsed and ran away.
Feng Yi and Deng Yu joined forces to rescue him, and Chimei Shao retreated.
Feng Yi thought that the soldiers were hungry and tired and should rest for a while, but Deng Yu refused to listen and fought again. He was defeated by Chimei, killing more than 3,000 people.
Deng Yu was able to escape and return to Yiyang. Feng Yi abandoned his horse and walked back to Xiguban on foot, and returned to camp with several of his men.
Then hold on to the fortress, take back the scattered soldiers, recruit tens of thousands of soldiers from various camps, and make an appointment with the thieves to fight at a time.
Let the strong men under the tent wear the same clothes as Red Eyebrow and lie in ambush on the side of the road.
Early in the morning, Chimei sent ten thousand people to attack Feng Yi's front. Feng Yi deliberately sent out a small number of troops to rescue him.
Seeing that Feng Yi's army was weak, the thieves attacked Feng Yi from all fronts, and Feng Yi launched a battle.
When the sun turned to the west, the vigor of the thieves was weak, and Feng Yi's ambush troops suddenly came out. Their clothes were the same as those of Red Eyebrows. Red Eyebrows could not be recognized, so the thieves were frightened and routed.
Feng Yi pursued and defeated the bandits at the bottom of Guodi. Eighty thousand men and women surrendered to Feng Yi.
There were still more than 100,000 people left, and they walked eastward to Yiyang and surrendered.
Guangwu's seal sent condolences to Feng Yi and said: Chimei was defeated and pacified, and the officials worked hard. Although they were defeated at first and returned to Xiguban, they finally achieved great success in Lianchi. It can be said that the east corner was lost and the mulberry tree was gained.
I am giving you rewards based on your merits to reward you for your great contributions.
Although Chimei had surrendered at this time, many bandits were still in power; Yancen occupied Lantian, Wang Xin occupied Xiaguiquan, Fangdan occupied Xinfeng, Jiang Zhen occupied Baling, Zhang Han occupied Chang'an, Gongsun Shou occupied Changling, and Yang Zhou They occupied the mouth of the valley, Lu Qian occupied Chencang, Jiao Hong occupied Wei, Luo Yan occupied Ji, Ren Liang occupied Huaili, and each of them was called a general. Some had more than 10,000 men, and some had thousands of men. They attacked each other.
Feng Yi marched while fighting and stationed troops in Shanglin Garden.
After Yancen defeated Chimei, he claimed to be the king of Wu'an and set up prefectural and animal governors. He wanted to occupy Hanzhong and led Zhang Han and Ren Liang to jointly attack Feng Yi.
Feng Yi defeated him and beheaded more than a thousand people. Those who were attached to Yancen from all the camps came to surrender to Feng Yi.
Yancen went to attack Xixian County. Feng Yi sent General Deng Ye of Fuhan and General Yu Kuang of Fuhan to attack Yancen. They defeated Yancen. His general Su Chen and more than 8,000 people surrendered to the Han army.
Yancen fled from Wuguan to Nanyang.
At this time, the people were hungry, people were eating each other, and a pound of gold could only be exchanged for five liters of beans.
Roads were cut off and transportation was inaccessible, so the soldiers relied on fruits as food.
He issued an edict and appointed Zhao Kuang of Nanyang as You Fufeng. He led the army to assist Feng Yi and sent silk and millet. Everyone in the army called him Long Live.
As the food for Feng Yi's soldiers gradually increased, he gradually punished and attacked the heroes who disobeyed the orders, and commended and rewarded those who had made meritorious service after surrendering. All the generals were sent to the capital, and all the tribesmen were dispersed back to their hometowns. Might and virtue prevailed in Guanzhong.
Only Lu Tuna, Zhang Han, and Jiang Zhen sent envoys to surrender to Shu, and the rest were all pacified.
The next year, Gongsun Shu sent general Cheng Yan and led tens of thousands of people out of Lutun to station in Chencang.
Feng Yi and Zhao Kuang met the attack and defeated Cheng Yan. Cheng Yan retreated back to Hanchuan.
Feng Yi pursued and fought in Jigu, and again defeated Cheng Yan. He returned to attack and defeated Lu Tuna, and many of the camp guards surrendered.
Later, Shu sent generals to take advantage of the opportunity many times, and Feng Wenbu defeated him.
It only took three years to recruit the people and redress their grievances. Many people came to Shanglin to join him.
Feng Yi himself had been away with his troops for a long time and felt uneasy. He wrote a letter saying that he longed for the imperial court and was willing to have a blind date in the palace, but the emperor would not allow it.
Later, someone wrote a memorial saying that Feng Yi acted arbitrarily in Guanzhong and killed the magistrate of Chang'an County. He had great prestige and power, and the people surrendered to him and called him the King of Xianyang.
The emperor sent someone to show Feng Yi the memorial.
Feng Yi was frightened and wrote a letter to apologize, saying: I was originally a Confucian scholar. I got the opportunity to be appointed during the war and served in the army. I received excessive favors and favors. I was worshiped as a general, made a noble prince, and appointed a special commission to the West in order to achieve small achievements. All of this was based on the interests of the country and did not care about my own selfishness.
I fell down and thought to myself: I often get the desired results with edicts and orders; sometimes I make decisions based on selfish motives, but I still regret it.
The emperor's unique wisdom has become more far-reaching over time, and he knows that nature and the way of heaven cannot be heard or heard.
When the military revolution began and there was chaos, heroes competed in groups, and many people were confused. In the encounter, I was able to take care of you. In the dangerous and chaotic situation before, I didn't dare to make any mistakes. What's more, now that the world is peaceful, superiors are superior and inferiors are inferior, and I am favored by the prince, can I still do unpredictable things?
I sincerely hope to be cautious and diligent in order to be consistent.
After reading the memorial that the Holy Father forwarded to me, I was filled with fear and trembling.
I want to know that the Lord knows my stupidity, so I dare to express my feelings. Guangwu replied with an edict: To the country, a general is as righteous as a ruler and his ministers, and as kind as a father and son.
Why are you afraid because of any suspicion?
In the spring of the sixth year of Jianwu, Feng Yi went to Beijing to pay homage to the emperor.
The emperor introduced him and said to the ministers: "He was the chief secretary when I started the army."
Overcome thorns and thorns for me and conquer Guanzhong. After the court was over, he was sent to Zhonghuangmen to give him treasures, clothes, money and silk.
The edict said: When I was in a hurry and trapped in Zheng, there was no bean porridge sent to me by Luoting, and wheat rice sent to me by Hutuo River. I have not repaid my affection for a long time. Feng Yi kowtowed and said in thanks, "I heard that Guan Zhong once said to Qi Huan Gong: I hope the king will not forget about shooting a sentence, and I will not forget about driving a chariot."
Qi relied on this to become strong.
I also hope that the emperor will not forget the disaster in Hebei, and I will not forget your kindness in pardoning me. Later, he was given several banquets to discuss the issue of attacking Gongsun Shu. After staying for more than ten days, Feng Yi's wife, family and children were ordered to follow Feng Yi back to the west.
In the summer, he sent generals to Long, but was defeated by Kai Xiao. Guangwu ordered Feng Yi to march to the city.
Before they arrived, Kaixiao took advantage of the victory and sent his generals Wang Yuan and Xingxun to lead more than 20,000 people to Long, so he divided them into patrols and captured the city.
Feng Yi immediately mobilized his troops and prepared to occupy the city first.
All the generals said: "Kuihuo has a strong army and is coming to seize victory. Do not fight with him." The army should be stopped at a convenient place and slowly think about the strategy. Feng Yi said: When Wei Xiao's troops came to the border, they were accustomed to fighting for small profits, so they wanted to take advantage of the situation and go deeper.
If we capture the city, it will shake the three assistants, which is my worry.
The Art of War says that if there are not enough attackers, there will be more than enough defenders.
Now, occupying the city first and waiting for work is not a matter of competing with him. So he entered the city secretly, closed the city gates, silenced his flags and drums, and went on patrol without knowing it, and rushed to the city.
Feng Yi took advantage of his surprise and suddenly beat the drums and flags to rush out. The patrol troops panicked and ran around in confusion. Feng Yi pursued them for dozens of miles and defeated the patrol troops.
Ji Zun is also attacking Wang Yuan.
So all the powerful leaders in the north, Geng Ding and others, rebelled against Kuai Xiao and surrendered to the Han.
Feng Yi wrote a letter explaining the situation and did not dare to be proud of his own merits.
Some generals want to share their achievements. Guangwu felt worried.
Then he issued a seal saying: The imperial edict was issued to the commander-in-chief, generals Huya, Jianwei, Hanzhong, Qilu, and Wuwei: The prisoners led their troops to march down to Long, and the three assistants were frightened.
The city is in danger and is in danger.
All the camps and security guards in the north stood still and watched.
Now that the outlying city has been preserved and the captive troops have suffered a setback, Geng Ding and his followers have regained their righteousness as kings and ministers.
The general's achievements in conquering the West are like mountains and hills, but he still thinks that he is not reserved enough.
What is the difference between Meng Zhi who rebelled against the Queen and rejected the Qi troops without claiming his merit?
Now the Taizhong Taifu was sent to reward the dead and wounded soldiers who conquered the west with medicine and coffins. The Grand Sima and his subordinates personally hanged them and asked about their injuries to show their humility. So Feng Yi was ordered to march into Yiqu County and take over the affairs of the Northern Governor.
Qingshan Hu led more than 10,000 people to surrender to Feng Yi.
Feng Yi also attacked Lu Fang's general Jia Lan and the Xiongnu Ge Jian Ri Zhu Wang, and defeated them both.
Shangjun and Anding both surrendered, and Feng Yi took over the affairs of Anding as the prefect.
In the spring of the ninth year of Jianwu, Ji Zun died, and Feng Yi was ordered to take charge of the general Ji Zun on his behalf and command the original Ji Zun troops.
After Wei Xiao died, Wei generals Wang Yuan, Zhou Zong and others appointed Kai Xiao's son Kai Chun and continued to occupy Ji County. Gongsun Shu sent general Zhao Kuang and others to rescue Wei Chun, and Guangwu ordered Feng Yi to concurrently serve as the prefect of Tianshui.
He attacked Zhao Kuang and others for nearly a year and killed them all.
The generals jointly attacked Ji County but could not capture it, so they prepared to temporarily return to rest and regroup. Feng Yi insisted on standing firm and was often the vanguard of the army.
In the summer of the next year, he and the generals attacked the gate but failed to capture it. Feng Yi fell ill and died in the army. He was given the posthumous title of Jiehou.
The eldest son Akatsuki.
Next year, the emperor thought of his extraordinary achievements and granted Zhang's younger brother the title of Marquis of Xixiang.
In the 13th year, he was granted the title of Minhou of Zhangdong and was granted the title of "Emperor of Three Counties".
In Yongpingzhong, he moved to Pingxiang and was granted the title of Marquis.
If the emperor dies, his son will have an heir. If he is guilty, the country will be destroyed.
In the sixth year of the Yongchu period, Emperor An issued an edict saying: "A husband's benevolence never leaves his relatives, his righteousness never forgets his hard work, his rise and fall continue, his good deeds are passed down to his descendants, this is an ancient standard."
In the past, I, Guangwu, was reborn by destiny, and my holy thread was magnificent. It spread across all four sides, showing up and down. It shined brightly for all ages, and its blessings and disapproval spread, hanging down to the extreme.
At the end of my life, I will think long and hard, pursue my heroes and martyrs, write pictures and books, build twenty-eight generals of Yuan Dynasty, assist tigers and ministers, and predict the war.
Gai Xiao and Cao Shaofeng were passed down to this day. In addition, this is not far away, and there may be no sacrifices. I am sorry for it.
Article 28: If a general has no heirs, and if he commits a crime and seizes the country, his descendants should unite with the latter and sign the certificate respectively.
When approaching the scenery and scenery, the chapter recounts the old virtues and shows the achievements left behind. So Shao granted Pu Zichen the title of Marquis of Pingxiang.
Next year, the twenty-eight generals who will be defeated in the country will all be granted the title of Yan.
Cen Peng, courtesy name Junran, was from Jiyang County, Nanyang County.
During the reign of Wang Mang, he acted as the magistrate of Jiyang County.
After the rise of Han soldiers, they captured Jiyang County. Cen Peng and his family rushed to Zhenfu, the doctor of the front army.
Zhenfu was angry that Cen Peng could not stick to Jiyang. He detained Cen Peng's mother and wife and ordered Cen Peng to redeem himself by performing meritorious service.
Cen Peng's generals and guests fought hard.
Later, Zhenfu died and Cen Peng was injured. He fled back to Wan County and defended the city together with Yan Shuo, Zhenfu's deputy general on the front line.
After the Han soldiers had been attacking for several months, the food in the city was exhausted and people were eating each other. Cen Peng then told Yan that the whole city should be surrendered to the Han.
The generals were about to kill Cen Peng, but Chief Tu Bosheng said: "Cen Peng is a high official in the county, and it is his integrity to stand firm."
Now that we are raising troops to prosper the Han Dynasty, we should commend the righteous soldiers. It is better to confer an official title on him. This can also set an example for future generals who surrender. At the beginning of the war, Cen Peng was granted the title of Guidehou and was led by Bo Sheng.
Later, Bo Sheng was killed, and Cen Peng became the captain of the Grand Sima Zhu Kun. He followed Zhu Kun to attack Wang Mang Yangzhou Mu Li Sheng, killed Li Sheng, and pacified Huaiyang City.
Zhu Jun recommended Cen Peng as the captain of Huaiyang.
Gengshi sent Liwei King Zhang Xuan and General Juwei to control Huaiyang.
Wei Wei rebelled and drove Zhang Xian away.
Cen Peng led his troops to attack Ju Wei and defeated him.
He was promoted to the prefect of Yingchuan.
At the same time, Liu Mao of Chongling raised troops and captured Yingchuan. Cen Peng did not get an official position, so he and hundreds of his men followed Han Xin, a fellow governor of Hanoi.
Just when Guangwu was attacking Hanoi, Han Xin wanted to defend the city, but Cen Peng dissuaded him and refused to listen.
Later, when Guangwu arrived in Huai County, Han Xin surrendered in an urgent and helpless situation.
Guangwu knew about his plan to defend the city and was furious. He put Han Xin under the banner and prepared to kill him.
Summoning Cen Peng, Cen Peng therefore went in and said: Now that Chimei has entered Guanzhong, Gengshi is in danger. The powerful officials are indulgent and falsely preach the imperial edict. The roads are blocked, swarms are coming from all directions, and the heroes are vying for the throne. The people have nowhere to go.
I heard that the king pacified Hebei and established the empire. This is really the blessing of the emperor and the heaven on the Han Dynasty and the happiness of the people!
Fortunately, Cen Peng was rescued by Situ Gongbo, but he failed to repay his kindness. Later, he suffered disaster, which will always be regretted in his heart.
Now that I have met the king again, I am willing to sacrifice my life to serve him. Guangwu is willing to accept Cen Peng.
Peng therefore said that Han Xin was a powerful person in Nanyang and could be used by the king.
Guangwu pardoned Han Xin and made him serve as a military advisor to Deng Yu.
Gengshi general Lu Zhi led his army to station in Qiyuan. Cen Peng persuaded him to surrender to Guangwu, so he appointed Cen Peng as the assassin general and sent him to supervise each camp. He was awarded the talisman he usually held and followed to pacify Hebei.
When Guangwu ascended the throne, he appointed Cen Peng as a court lieutenant, and Guidehou performed the duties of a general as in the past.
Together with the great commander Wu Han, the great commander Wang Liang, the great general Zhu Jianyi, the right general Wan, the Jin Wu Jia Fu, the heroic cavalry general Liu Zhi, the Yanghua general Jian Dan, the plotting general Hou Jin, the partial generals Feng Yi, Ji Zun, Wang Ba, etc., surrounded Luoyang for several months.
Zhu Tuna and others refused to surrender.
Guangwu Yi Cen Peng once served as Zhu Kun's captain and asked him to persuade Zhu Kun.
Zhu Tuna was on top of the city, and Cen Peng was at the bottom of the city. They expressed condolences to each other and talked happily as in the past.
Cen Peng then said: I, Cen Peng, was able to follow the Great Sima in the past, and was often recommended by the Great Sima as the Captain. I always wanted to repay my kindness.
Now that Chimei has captured Chang'an, Gengshi was rebelled against by Zhang Xun and other three kings and was defeated. Guangwu was ordered to pacify Yan and Zhao. The land of You and Ji was all owned by him. The people returned to their hearts, and virtuous and handsome men gathered together to personally lead the army to attack Luoyang.
The major events in the world are in the past.
Although the Duke has surrounded the city and defended it, what else will he be waiting for? Zhu Tuna said: When the great Situ Bosheng was killed, I also participated in the murder and suggested to Gengshi not to send Guangwu to the Northern Expedition. I know that my sin is very serious.
Cen Peng came back and reported the situation to Guangwu. Guangwu said: Those who build great undertakings should not be afraid of small resentments.
If Zhu Tuna surrendered now and his official title could be kept, why would he be killed?
The water of the Yellow River can bear witness here, and I don’t mean to back up my words. Cen Peng went to sue Zhu Kun again, and Zhu Kun lowered a rope from the tower and said, "If you believe it, you can take this rope up." Cen Peng gets close to the rope and prepares to get on.
Seeing his sincerity, Zhu Tuna immediately promised to surrender.
Five days later, Zhu Kun led his lightly-armed cavalry to meet with Cen Peng.
He turned around and ordered the generals to say: Hold on to this city and wait for me.
If I don't come back, you can lead your troops directly to Yuanyuan and return to King Lin. He tied himself up and went to Heyang with Cen Peng.
Guangwu immediately untied him, summoned Zhu Tuna, and then ordered Cen Peng to send Zhu Tuna back to the city.
Early the next morning, he led all his troops out of the city and surrendered. Guangwu worshiped Zhu Jun as General Pingdi and granted him the title of Marquis of Fugou.
Zhu Jun was a native of Huaiyang. He later became a Shaofu official, and his descendants passed down the title for several generations.
In the second year of Jianwu, he sent Cen Peng to attack Jingzhou and captured more than ten cities including Taoxian and Yexian.
The South was particularly troubled at the time.
Qin Feng, a native of Nanjun, occupied Liqiu and called himself the King of Chu Li, occupying twelve counties; Dong Tanjin raised troops to block the countryside;
Guangwu sent Wu Han to attack, but Wu Han's army invaded and brutalized many places.
At this time, Polu general Deng Feng asked for leave and returned to Xinye. He was angry that Wu Han had plundered his hometown, so he rebelled, defeated the Han army, captured the Han army's baggage, stationed troops and occupied Xuyuyang, and joined forces with the bandits from all walks of life.
In autumn, Cen Peng defeated Xingju, Xu Han surrendered, and moved Cen Peng to be the general in the southern expedition.
He also dispatched Zhu, Jia Fu, Jianwei General Geng Yan, Hanzhong General Wang Chang, Wuwei General Guo Shou, Yueqi General Liu Hong, and partial generals Liu Jia and Geng Zhi to attack Deng Feng together with Cen Peng.
They attacked Duxiang first, while Deng Feng led more than 10,000 men to rescue Dong Tanjin.
Dong Yanjin and Deng Feng were both Nanyang elite soldiers. Cen Peng and others attacked, but failed to capture it for several months.
In the summer of the third year of Jianwu, Guangwu personally led his army to the south and arrived at Ye County. Dong Tanjin's generals led thousands of people to block the way, and the chariots and cavalry could not advance.
Cen Peng pursued and attacked, defeating the bandits.
Guangwu arrived at Duyang, Deng Fengcheng fled back to Yuyang at night, and Dong Jinjin surrendered.
Cen Peng then joined Geng Yan, Jia Fu, General Jinu Fu Jun, Cavalry Commander Zang Gong and others to track and pursue Deng Feng in Xiao Chang'an. Guangwu led the generals to fight in person and defeated Deng Fengjun.
Deng Feng was desperate and surrendered.
Guangwu felt pity that Deng Feng was an old hero and wanted to pardon him because his rebellion was caused by Wu Han officers and soldiers violating the people.
Cen Peng and Geng Yan both advised: Deng Feng betrayed his kindness and rebelled, leaving the army exposed for many years, causing Jia Fu to be injured and Zhu to be captured.
Even though His Majesty was here, he still did not know how to repent and do good, but personally commanded on the battlefield. He was forced to surrender until the army was defeated.
If Deng Feng is not killed, there will be no way to punish the evildoers. Guangwu then killed Deng Feng.
Deng Feng is the son of Deng Chen's brother, Marquis of Xihua.
When Guangwu returned to the capital, he ordered Cen Peng to lead Fu Jun, Zang Gong, Liu Hong and more than 30,000 men to attack Qin Feng southward and capture Huang Youju. Qin Feng and his general Kui Hong resisted Cen Peng and Deng, and were unable to advance for several months.
Guangwu felt strange and ordered Cen Peng to do it. Cen Peng was afraid, so he led his troops at night and ordered the army to attack Shandu County in the west early the next morning.
He relaxed his control over the prisoners and allowed them to flee. When he went back and told Qin Feng, Qin Feng invited all his troops to the west to attack Cen Peng.
However, Cen Peng secretly led his troops across the Mianshui River and attacked Qin Feng's general Zhang Yang on Atou Mountain, severely defeating Zhang Yang.
He also cut down trees from the valley to clear a road, and attacked Liqiu directly, defeating all the troops stationed there.
Qin Feng was shocked when he heard the news and returned the army to rescue.
Cen Peng and his generals relied on Dongshan as their camp. Qin Feng and Cai Hong attacked Cen Peng at night. Cen Peng took precautions in advance and sent troops to attack. Qin Feng was defeated and Cai Hong was pursued and killed.
He also named Cen Peng the Marquis of Wuyin.
Qin Feng's prime minister Zhao Jing summoned Yicheng and surrendered to Cen Peng. He worshiped Zhao Jing as the general of the Han Dynasty and together with Cen Peng besieged Qin Feng in Liqiu.
At this time, Tian Rong gathered troops in Yiling. Hearing that Qin Feng was besieged, he was afraid that the soldiers would arrive and prepared to surrender.
Xin Chen, his wife's brother, advised Tian Rong: "Now that the heroes from all over the country are occupying the prefectures and the land of Luoyang is like the palm of your hand, it is better to stand still and observe its changes." Tian Rong said: "Qin Feng, the king of Chu Li, is so powerful that he is still besieged by the army that conquers the south. What about me?"
I have decided to surrender. In the spring of the fourth year of Jianwu, Tian Rong left Xin Chen to guard Yiling. He led his army up the Yangtze River to Mian River and ended at Liqiu, and planned the date of surrender. However, Xin Chen stole Tian Rong's treasures and surrendered to Cen Peng first from the trail. Instead, he summoned Tian Rong to surrender with a letter.
Tian Rong suspected that Xin Chen must have betrayed him, so he did not dare to surrender and instead joined Qin Feng. Cen Peng sent troops to attack Tian Rong. Within a few months, the Rong army was defeated. His general Wu Gong surrendered to Cen Peng, and Tian Rong fled back to Yiling.
Guangwu went to Liqiu to work for the army, and granted more than a hundred meritorious services among Cen and Peng's officials.
Cen Peng attacked Qin Feng for three years and beheaded more than 90,000 people. Qin Feng's remaining soldiers were only a thousand, and the food in the city was almost exhausted.
Guangwu thought that Qin Feng had become weak, so he ordered Zhu Dai Cen Peng to surround him, and sent Cen Peng and Fu Jun to attack Tian Rong southward, defeating the Rong army, and then conquered Yiling and pursued Zigui.
Tian Rong and dozens of his cavalry fled to Shu, and all Tian Rong's wives, children, and ladies were captured, numbering tens of thousands.
Cen Peng was about to conquer the Shu Han, but there were few valleys on both sides of the Sichuan River, dangerous water and water transportation was very difficult, so he left Weilu general Feng Jun to station troops in Jiangzhou County, captain Tian Hong to station troops in Yiling, and leader Li Xuan to station troops in Yi Dao.
At first, Cen Peng had a good relationship with Deng Rang, the pastor of Jiaozhi, so he wrote to Deng Rang to state the might and virtue of his military power. He also sent partial general Qu Chong to Jiangnan to issue an edict.
So Deng Rang, together with Hou Deng, the prefect of Jiangxia, Wang Tang, the prefect of Wuling, Han Fu, the prime minister of Changsha, Zhang Long, the prefect of Guiyang, Tian Xi, the prefect of Lingling, Du Mu, the prefect of Cangwu, Xiguang, the prefect of Jiaozhi, etc., successively sent envoys to contribute, and they were all granted the title of marquis.
Some even sent their sons to lead troops to assist Cen Peng in his expedition.
As a result, various precious items from Jiangnan began to circulate.
In the winter of the sixth year of Jianwu, Cen Peng was summoned to the capital. He was summoned many times to give banquets and generous rewards.
Returning south to Jinxiang County, he was ordered to go to the tomb of his ancestors when he passed his home, and to pay his respects to his wife on the first and fifteenth day of the Lunar New Year.
In the eighth year of Jianwu's reign, Cen Peng led his troops from Guangwu to break through the Tianshui River, and surrounded Wei and Wu Han in Xicheng.
At that time, Gongsun Shu's general Li Yu led his troops to rescue Kuai Xiao and guard Shanggui County. Guangwu left Gaiyan and Geng Yan to surround Shanggui County, and Guangwu returned eastward.
I sent a letter to Cen Peng to say: If Xicheng and Shanggui are captured, we can lead our troops south to attack the Shu captives.
People are suffering and not satisfied. After pacifying Long, they also look at Shu.
Every time I send troops, I am so anxious that my hair turns white. Cen Peng blocked the valley water and irrigated the west city. The water was still more than ten feet away from the city wall. General Wei Xiao led a patrol and Zhou Zong led the Shu reinforcements to arrive. Wei Xiao was able to leave the city and return to Jicheng.
The Han army ran out of food, burned its baggage, and retreated. Gai Yan and Geng Yan also retreated one after another.
Wei Xiao sent out troops to attack the camps, and the rear of Cen Peng Palace provided cover, so the generals were able to retreat safely and the entire division returned eastward.
Cen Peng returned to Jinxiang County.
In the ninth year of Jianwu, Gongsun Shu sent generals Ren Man, Tian Rong, and Cheng Xufan to lead tens of thousands of people down to Jiangguan on rafts made of bamboo and wood, and defeated Feng Jun, Tian Hong, Li Xuan, and others.
So he captured Yidao and Yiling, and occupied Jingzhou and Huya.
They built pontoon bridges and battle towers on the Yangtze River, erected many wooden pillars to cut off the waterway, and set up camps on the mountains to resist the Han soldiers.
Cen Peng's several attacks were unsuccessful, so he built thousands of warships with buildings that could go straight in. The people were in the ships, and only the hulls were exposed.
In the spring of the 11th year of Jianwu, Cen Peng, Wu Han, General Liu Long, General Zang Gong, and Liu Xin mobilized soldiers and horses from Nanyang, Wuling, and Nanjun, and sailors from Guiyang, Lingling, and Changsha for transportation tasks. A total of more than 60,000 people and 5,000 horses met at Jingmen.
Wu Han thought that the sailors in the three counties were spending too much food and did not use it.
Cen Peng thought that the Shu army was strong and the sailors could not be dismissed, so he wrote to Guangwu to explain the situation.
Guangwu replied to Cen Peng and said: The great Sima Wu Han was accustomed to fighting on foot and cavalry. He did not know about water battles and the battle of Jingmen. Everything was presided over by Zhengnan Gong Cen Peng. Cen Peng ordered the army to recruit warriors to attack the pontoon bridge, and those who could board it first would be rewarded.
So the general Lu Qi enlisted and attacked forward. At that time, the wind was blowing fiercely. Lu Qi's warship went upstream and rushed straight to the pontoon bridge. However, it was hooked by a wooden pillar and could not move forward. Lu Qi took advantage of the situation and fought to the death, using flying torches to burn it. The wind was so angry that the pontoon bridge and the tower were burned down.
Cen Peng then led the entire army to advance with the wind and was invincible.
The Shu army was in chaos, and thousands of people were drowned.
After his term of office was over, Cheng Xufan was captured alive, and Tian Rong fled to Jiangzhou to protect himself.
Cen Peng reported that Liu Long was the governor of Nanjun. He led Zang Gong and Liu Xin to march straight into Jiangguan and ordered the army not to plunder.
Wherever he passed, people offered cattle and wine to express their welcome and comfort.
When Cen Peng saw the elders, he said that the Han felt sorry for Bashu who had been enslaved by thieves for a long time, so he launched an expedition to attack the guilty and eliminate harm for the people.
He refuses to accept the cattle and wine offered by the people.
The people were very happy and rushed to open the door and surrender.
The edict ordered Cen Peng to temporarily act as the pastor of Yizhou, and Cen Peng would be appointed as the prefect of the following counties.
When Cen Peng arrived in Jiangzhou, he found that Tian Rong had enough food and could not capture it immediately, so he left Feng Jun to guard Jiangzhou while he led his troops to take advantage of the victory and directed his troops towards Dianjiang County, conquering Pingqu and harvesting hundreds of thousands of stones.
Gongsun Shu sent his generals Yancen, Lu Qian, Wang Yuan and his younger brother Gongsun Hui to lead all the troops to resist the defense of Guanghan and Zizhong counties. He also sent general Hou Dan to lead more than 20,000 people to resist the defense of Huangshi.
Cen Peng then set up more suspicious troops and asked the guards Yang Xi and Zang Gong to resist Yan Cen and others. However, he divided his troops and floated down the river back to Jiangzhou. He went up the Du River to attack Hou Dan and defeated Dan's army.
Because they traveled more than two thousand miles day and night, they directly captured Wuyang.
He sent elite cavalry to gallop to Guangdu County, which was only a few dozen miles away from Chengdu. Their offensive was like a sudden storm, and wherever they went, Shu soldiers fled and dispersed.
At first, Gongsun Shu heard that Han soldiers were still in Pingqu, so he sent a large army to resist.
When Cen Peng arrived in Wuyang and reached behind Yan Cen's army, the land of Shu was shaken and frightened.
Gongsun Shu was shocked and struck with his staff: "Why are you so fast!"
The name of the place where Cen Peng camped was Peng Mu. Cen Peng was disgusted when he heard it and was about to move away. Just as the sun was setting, Shu assassins pretended to be slaves and surrendered, and assassinated Cen Peng at night.
Cen Peng first broke through Jingmen, drove Wuyang for a long time, and managed the army in an orderly manner. There was no offense in Qiu.
King Rengui of Qiong Valley heard about Cen Peng's prestige and sent envoys thousands of miles away to welcome the surrender.
It happened that Cen Peng was stabbed to death. Guangwu general Ren Guisuo presented all the rewards to Cen Peng's wife and children, and gave him the posthumous title of Zhuanghou.
The Shu people admired his virtues and built a temple for Cen Peng in Wuyang, where they went to worship him every year.
The son followed the heir and was granted the title of Marquis of Xiyang.
In the thirteenth year, the emperor thought of Peng Gong and restored Zundi Huai to the title of Marquis of Guyang.
Zunyong Pingzhong was appointed as the Tunqi school captain.
Zunzu, son and heir.
The couple died, and the heir was Zi Qi. In the third year of the Yuan Dynasty, he lost his country due to his affairs.
In the first year of Jianguang, Emperor An regained the title of Marquis of Qi Xiyang, and during the reign of Emperor Shun, he was granted the title of Guang Luxun.
Qi died, his son was Xisi, and he was the eldest princess Nieyang, the sister of Shang'an.
When he was young, he was a servant and a tiger general, and the court often praised him for his ability.
He moved to Wei County as the prefect, recruited people to live in seclusion, and participated in political affairs.
In the second year of his reign, the emperor sang a poem: I have thorns of the tangerine tree, and Lord Cen cuts them down.
I have a thief, Lord Cen will stop it.
The dog barks without being startled, but a yak is born under a single step.
How can you know the disaster if you hold your breasts in your mouth and bulge your belly?
I enjoy my life and am alone.
Cenjun is so beautiful, you are so happy to play!
After Xi died, his son Fusi became the minister of Huangmen.
Jia Fu, courtesy name Junwen, was a native of Champion County, Nanyang County.
When he was young, he was eager to learn and studied Shangshu.
Li Sheng, who studied Wuyin, was surprised and said to his disciples: "Jia Jun has such a good appearance and ambition, and he is diligent in learning. He is a tool for generals." In the last years of Wang Mang's life, he was a county agent and went to the east of Hedong to pick up salt. He happened to encounter thieves. More than ten people in the same situation as him abandoned or scattered the salt. Only Jia Fu transported the salt back to the county intact, and the county believed that he was reliable in his work.
At that time, troops rose up in Xiajiang and Xinshi. Jia Fu also gathered hundreds of people at Yushan and proclaimed himself a general.
When Gengshi was established, he led his tribe to join Liu Jia, the king of Hanzhong, and Liu Jia made him the school captain.
Jia Fu saw the political chaos in Gengshi and the wanton behavior of the generals, so he said to Liu Jia: I heard that those who pursue the cause of Yao and Shun and fail to achieve it are King Shang, Tang and Zhou Wu;
Now that the Han Dynasty is reviving, the king uses the Liu clan as an assistant to the vassal. The world is not yet settled, but it is safe to protect. Isn't there some unprotectable protection? Liu Jia said: What you are talking about is too big for me to take on.
Grand Sima Liu Xiu is in Hebei. He will definitely be able to use it. All he needs to do is go there with my handwritten letter. Jia Fu then bid farewell to Liu Jia, accepted Liu Jia's letter and crossed the Yellow River north to catch up with Guangwu in Bairen. Deng Yu introduced Guangwu to him.
Guangwu was surprised, and Deng Yu also praised Jia Fu for his general's integrity, so he temporarily appointed Jia Fu as a general to break the captives and supervise the thieves.
Jia Fu's horse was weak, so Guangwu drove his chariot and rewarded Jia Fu with the horse on the left.
Because Jia Fu was a latecomer and liked to bully and frustrate his peers, the officials planned to transfer him to assist Gao Wei. Guangwu said: "Jia Fu has the power to repel enemy troops thousands of miles away. He has just been appointed to an important position and cannot be dismissed at will."
When Guangwu arrived in Xindu, he appointed Jia Fu as a partial general.
After capturing Handan, he moved the capital to protect the general.
From Guangwu's attack on Qingdu and Shedog, the battle continued until the middle of the day, and the bandits' position was strong and unyielding.
Guangwu summoned Jia Fu and said, "The officials and soldiers are all hungry. Let's eat for now." Jia Fu said: First defeat the thief, and then eat. So he carried the bird feather as a banner and went to the enemy first. Wherever he went, the enemy was invincible, and the thieves were defeated.
All the generals were convinced of his bravery.
In the north, he fought with the bandits from the five schools in Zhending and defeated the bandit army.
Jia Fu was seriously injured.
Guangwu was shocked and said: The reason why I did not let Jia Fu serve as a general fighting in conjunction with the main force is because he underestimated the enemy.
Sure enough, a famous general was lost.
I heard that his wife is pregnant. If the baby is a daughter, my son will marry her. If the baby is a boy, my daughter will marry him. Don’t let him worry about his wife and children! Jia Fu soon recovered from his injuries. He caught up with Guangwu at Ji. He was very happy after meeting him. He held a banquet for the soldiers and put Jia Fu in front. He attacked the Ye thieves and won.
Guangwu ascended the throne, worshiped Zhijinwu, and was named Champion Hou.
First, he crossed the Yellow River to attack Zhu Tuna in Luoyang, and fought with White Tiger Duke Chen Qiao. He defeated the enemy one after another and forced the enemy to surrender.
In the second year of Jianwu, Rang and Chaoyang counties were added.
Gengshi King Lin Yinzun and many generals in the south did not surrender. Emperor Guangwu summoned the generals to discuss the military affairs. He did not say anything. After thinking for a long time, he knocked on the wooden slip and said: King Lin Yinzun is the strongest, Wan is the second. Who can bear the responsibility of attacking? 贾复慨然回答说： 臣请命攻击尹尊。 光武帝笑说： 执金吾去攻郾王，我还有什么忧虑呢！
Da Sima should go to attack Wan.
So he sent Jia Fu, the Cavalry Commander Yinshi, and the heroic Cavalry General Liu Zhi to the south to cross Wushejin to attack the enemy, and defeated the enemy in succession.
After more than a month, Yin Zun surrendered and all his lands were pacified.
He also led troops to the east to attack Gengshi Huaiyang Governor Baosi. Baosi surrendered and all counties under his control were pacified.
In the autumn of this year, they attacked Zhaoling and Xinxi from the south and pacified them.
In the spring of the next year, he moved to the left general and attacked Chimei between Xincheng and Mianchi, defeating the Chimei army in succession.
He met with Emperor Guangwu in Yiyang and forced Chimei to surrender.
Jia Fu followed the expedition and never failed to lose an army. He and his generals rescued critical situations many times during the siege, and he was injured in twelve places.
Emperor Guangwu seldom ordered Jia Fu to go on expeditions because he dared to go deep into the enemy's army. Instead, he praised his bravery and integrity and often asked him to follow him. Therefore, Jia Fu rarely had any unique achievements.
The generals always boasted about their achievements, but Jia Fu never said anything about himself.
Emperor Guangwu often said: I myself know Jia Jun’s contribution.
In the 13th year of Jianwu's reign, he was granted the title of Marquis of Jiaodong, and was granted the title of Marquis of Jiaodong, with six counties in total: Yuzhi, Zhuangwu, Xiami, Jimo, Li, and Guanyang.
Jia Fu knew that Emperor Guangwu wanted to put an end to war and cultivate civilized virtues, and did not want heroes to gather in the capital, so he worked with Deng Yu, the Marquis of Gaomi, to cut down the armor and soldiers and emphasize Confucianism.
Emperor Guangwu was convinced and dismissed his generals.
Jia Fu was given the title of Marquis Yilie and was given a special rank.
Jia Fu was a resolute and upright man with great integrity.
After returning to his private home, he closed the door and cultivated his mighty virtue.
Zhu et al. recommended Jia Fuyi as prime minister. Emperor Guangwu was relegating official duties to the three princes, so he did not put any meritorious officials into use.
At this time, only Deng Yu, the Marquis of Gaomi, Li Tong, the Marquis of Gushi, and Jia Fu, the Marquis of Jiaodong, could discuss national affairs with the ministers, and they were favored and treated very generously.
He died in the 31st year of Jianwu, and his posthumous title was Ganghou.
Son of a loyal heir.
Zhongzu, Zimin heir.
In the first year of Jianchu's reign, he falsely accused his mother of murder.
The country is removed.
Suzong also granted Xiaozi Han the title of Marquis of Jiaodong, and Handi Zong was granted the title of Marquis of Jimo, each with one county.
Handan died, and his son raised an heir.
If you raise a child, you will have an heir.
His clan name is Wu Ru, he has little conduct and more wisdom.
He first paid homage to the doctor, moved a little later, and built the junior high school as the prefect of Shuofang.
Those who migrated to the border areas of the old Neijun were mostly poor and weak, and they were servants of the residents and were not allowed to serve as officials.
Zong promoted those who held their positions to participate in elections with border officials and transferred them to the Prime Minister's Supervisory Department to expose their traitors, or to supplement the senior officials with their merits, so everyone was willing to die.
The Huns were afraid of it and did not dare to enter the fortress.
He was appointed as the captain of Changshui.
The sect was also proficient in Confucianism and would often discuss with Shaofu Ding Hong and others at every banquet.
Zhang He died in the second year of his life, and the court felt sorry for him.
Zi Shen Si.
After participating in the death, the son established an heir.
In the first year of the Yuan Dynasty, the daughter of Emperor Shanghe came to Princess Ying.
The main food is Yingyin and Xu, which combines the three counties with tens of thousands of households.
When the Empress Dowager Deng came to the court, Guang favor was the most popular. Jian was appointed as the minister, and when Emperor Shun was appointed as Guang Luxun.
The historian commented: There are many ZTE generals who have made great achievements. Only Cen Peng and Feng Yi made great achievements. From the west of Hangu and south of Fangcheng, the two generals made the greatest contributions.
For example, Feng Yi and Jia Fu did not take credit for themselves, but Cen Gong's loyalty was enough to impress the three armies and frighten the enemy. Therefore, they were able to achieve great things and preserve Rongqing in the end.
In the past, Emperor Gaozu was jealous of the name of "Bo people" and left there, so he was blessed; Cen Peng hated the place where Peng died and wanted to move but could not, so he suffered disasters if he stayed there.
Is it possible that there is confusion within a few moments, and that luck and misfortune may be caused by destiny?
