Li Si was a native of Shangcai, State of Chu.
When he was young, he worked as a minor official in the county. He saw rats eating dirty things in the toilet near his office. Whenever someone or a dog came near, he would be frightened and run away.
Later, Li Si walked into the granary and saw the rats in the granary eating the stored grain and living under the big house without having to worry about being disturbed by people or dogs.
So Li Si sighed with emotion: A person's talent or incompetence is determined by his environment, just like a mouse.
So Li Si learned from Xunzi how emperors governed the world.
After completing his studies, Li Si estimated that the King of Chu was not worthy of serving, and that the six kingdoms were already weak and there was no hope of making contributions to them, so he wanted to go west to Qin.
Before leaving, he said goodbye to Xunzi: I heard that if a person encounters an opportunity, he should not slack off. Nowadays, all the vassal states are striving for opportunities so that lobbyists can make meritorious deeds and gain real power.
Now that the King of Qin wants to annex other countries and proclaim himself emperor to govern the world, this is a good time for political activists and lobbyists from civilian backgrounds to travel around and express their ambitions.
Being in a humble position and not thinking about seeking fame and wealth is like an animal. It only wants to eat meat when it sees it. It only has a human face but can barely walk.
Therefore, the greatest shame is humble status, and the greatest sorrow is poverty.
Being in a humble position and difficult situation for a long time, yet still criticizing society, hating fame and wealth, and slandering oneself as uncontested is not the original wish of a scholar.
So I am going west to lobby the King of Qin.
After Li Si arrived in Qin, just as King Zhuangxiang of Qin passed away, Li Si asked to be a retainer of Lu Buwei, the prime minister of Qin. Lu Buwei appreciated him very much and appointed him Lang Guan.
As a result, Li Si got the opportunity to lobby. He said to the King of Qin: Mediocre people often lose opportunities, but those who can achieve great achievements are those who can take advantage of opportunities and be ruthless.
In the past, although Duke Mu of Qin dominated the world, he did not move eastward and annex the six kingdoms of Shandong. What was the reason?
The reason was that the number of princes was still large and the prestige of the Zhou Dynasty had not completely declined. Therefore, the five hegemons emerged alternately and successively promoted the Eastern Zhou royal family.
Since Qin Xiaogong, the royal family of the Eastern Zhou Dynasty has been weak and weak, and the princes have merged with each other. The area east of Hangu Pass has been transformed into six kingdoms. Qin State took advantage of the victory to gradually conquer the six kingdoms. It has been about six generations now.
Nowadays, the princes obey Qin just like the counties obey the imperial court.
With the power of Qin and the wisdom of the king, just like sweeping away the dust on the stove, it is enough to wipe out the princes, achieve the emperor's cause, and realize the unification of the world. This is the only opportunity that comes once in a lifetime.
If we are slack now and do not take action on this matter, when the princes become stronger again and enter into alliance alliances, even if they are as capable as Huang Di, they will not be able to annex them.
Qin Shihuang appointed Li Si as the chief historian, followed his plan, and secretly sent counselors to various countries with gold and jade treasures to lobby.
If famous figures from various countries can be bribed, they will be bribed with gifts; if they cannot be bribed, they will be killed with sharp swords.
These are all strategies to alienate the relationship between the princes and their ministers. Then, the King of Qin sent good generals to attack later.
The King of Qin appointed Li Si as his guest minister.
At this time, the Korean Zheng Guo came to Qin as a spy in the name of building channels, and was soon discovered.
The royal family and ministers of the State of Qin all said to the King of Qin: Most of the people who come from various vassal states to serve the King of Qin are lobbying for their king, just to alienate the State of Qin. They ask the King to expel all the guests.
Li Si was also among the guests planned to be expelled.
So Li Si wrote a letter saying:
I heard that officials were talking about expelling guest guests. I privately thought that this was wrong.
In the past, Duke Mu of Qin recruited talented people, and he obtained Yu Yu from Xirong, Baili Xi from the garden of Chu in the east, Uncle Jian from Song, and Pi Bao and Gongsun Zhi from Jin.
None of these five people were born in Qin, but Duke Mu of Qin used them to annex more than 20 countries, and then dominated Xirong.
Qin Xiaogong adopted Shang Yang's new method and changed customs. As a result, the people prospered and the country became rich and powerful. The people were willing to serve the country and the princes sincerely submitted. He defeated the armies of Chu and Wei and captured thousands of miles of land. To this day, the country is politically stable and strong.
King Qin Hui adopted Zhang Yi's strategy and captured the Sanchuan area, annexed Ba and Shu to the west, occupied Shangjun to the north, captured Hanzhong to the south, captured Jiuyi, controlled Yan and Ying, and occupied the dangerous Chenggao in the east, seizing fertile land, and further disintegrated the alliance of the six countries, making them face the west and serve the Qin State. Their achievements continue to this day.
King Zhao of Qin won Fan Sui, deposed Ranghou, expelled King Huayang, strengthened the public house, and eliminated the power of private dignitaries. Like silkworms eating mulberry leaves, he gradually annexed the lands of the princes, and finally laid the foundation for Qin to unify the world.
These four monarchs all relied on the power of guest ministers from other countries.
From this point of view, in what way does Ke Qing feel sorry for Qin?
If these four monarchs refuse guests rather than accept them, and alienate scholars without using them in important positions, this will make Qin neither rich nor powerful.
Now, Your Majesty, you have obtained the beautiful jade from Kunshan, the pearl of Suihou, the jade of the He family. You hang the bright moon pearl, wear the Tai'a sword, ride a Xianli horse, erect the green phoenix flag, and place the Lingnu drum.
None of the above treasures were produced in Qin, but Your Majesty loves them very much. Why is this?
If it must be produced by Qin and then used, then the luminous jade cannot be used to decorate the court, rhino horn and ivory products cannot be admired by you, the beauties of Zheng and Wei cannot be listed in your harem, and good horses cannot fill your stable. Gold and tin from Jiangnan should not be used, and paintings from Xishu should not be used as paint.
If the things you use to decorate your harem, serve as your concubine, and please your eyes and ears, must come from the Qin State, then the hairpins decorated with Wandi pearls, the earrings inlaid with jade beads, the clothes sewn from Dong'a white silk, and the gorgeous embroidered ornaments cannot be presented to you, and the fashionable and elegant, beautiful and quiet Zhao women cannot stand by your side.
And those who bang the earthen altars and pots, play the zither, slap their thighs, and scream to satisfy the appreciation requirements, this is the authentic music of the Qin Dynasty. Musical pieces such as "Zheng", "Wei", "Sangjian", "Zhao", "Yu", "Wu" and "Xiang" are music from other countries.
Now you abandon the set of Qin music of banging earthen altars and pots and listen to the sounds of "Zheng" and "Wei"; you don't listen to playing the zither but enjoy the music of "Zhao" and "Yu". What's the reason for this?
To put it bluntly, it is just for the pleasure of the eyes to satisfy the viewing needs of the ears and eyes.
But this is not the case when you employ people now. You don't ask whether the person can be used or not, and you don't ask about the merits of the person. As long as he is not a native of Qin, he will be dismissed, and as long as he is a guest, he will be expelled.
It seems that what your Majesty values ​​​​is beauty, music, pearls, and gems, and what he despises is talent.
This is not a way to unify the world and subdue the princes.
I have heard that the vastness of the land means abundant food, the vastness of the country means the large population, and the strongness of the army means the bravery of the soldiers.
That's why Mount Tai can be so tall without rejecting soil; rivers and seas can become so deep and wide without being picky about small streams; and only those who achieve kingly status can show their great virtue by not abandoning the masses.
Therefore, regardless of whether the land is southeast or northwest, the people do not distinguish one country from another. The grains are abundant all year round, and ghosts and gods grant blessings. This is why the Five Emperors and Three Kings are invincible in the world.
And now, Your Majesty, you have abandoned the people to help the enemy, rejected the guests and made them contribute to other vassal states, made the talented people in the world retreat and dare not go west, stop and dare not enter Qin. This is exactly what people say: lending weapons to the enemy and sending food to thieves!
There are many items not produced in Qin that are worth cherishing; there are also many scholars who were not born in Qin who are willing to be loyal.
Now you are expelling guests to support the enemy, harming the people to help the enemy, weakening yourself internally, and creating resentment with the princes externally. If you continue like this, it is impossible to keep the country from danger.
Therefore, the King of Qin abolished the order of expelling guests, restored Li Si's official position, finally adopted his strategy, and his official position was also promoted to that of Tingwei.
After more than twenty years, he finally unified the world and honored the king as "Emperor". The emperor also appointed Li Si as prime minister.
They also demolished the city walls of counties and counties in various countries, destroyed weapons in various places, and stated that they would no longer be used.
The Qin State did not have an inch of enfeoffed land, nor did it make the emperor's sons or brothers kings, nor did it confer meritorious officials as princes, so that the country would never have the scourge of war from now on.
In the thirty-fourth year of Qin Shi Huang's reign, he held a banquet in Xianyang Palace to entertain officials. Dr. Zhou Qingchen and others praised Qin Shi Huang's military might and virtue.
Chun Yuyue, a native of Qi State, advised: I heard that the Yin, Shang and Zhou dynasties ruled for more than a thousand years, and they enfeoffed clan members and heroes as their own auxiliary forces.
And now, although Your Majesty has unified the world, your children are still common people. If there is a disaster like Tian Chang and Liu Qing seizing power and usurping the throne, and there are no strong assistant ministers in the court, who will come to rescue them?
I have never heard of a dynasty that could maintain a long-term rule without learning from ancient experience.
Now Zhou Qingchen and others are flattering you in person to aggravate your mistake. They are not loyal.
The First Emperor handed over this memorial to Li Si. Li Si thought this argument was absurd, so he discarded it, and wrote to the emperor: In ancient times, the world was scattered and chaotic, and they did not obey each other, so the princes rose up together. General public opinion praised the ancient times for denying the present and decorating some exaggerated words to disturb the reality of society. People thought that their own school had the best knowledge to deny the emperor's policies and decrees.
Now His Majesty has unified the world, distinguished right from wrong, and made the emperor a common person in the country. However, hundreds of schools of thought have come together to criticize the imperial court's laws and regulations. When they heard that the imperial court issued an order, they immediately discussed it from the viewpoint of their own school.
If this continues without prohibition, the power and prestige of the monarch above will decline, and private gangs will form below. Therefore, it is better to ban it.
I request that all the "Poems", "Books" and works of various schools of thought be swept away.
Thirty days after the order is issued, if anyone still disobeys, he will be sentenced to tattoos and hard labor in building the city.
Not included in the purge are books on medicine, divination, planting, etc.
If anyone wants to learn the law, he should take officials as his teachers.
Qin Shihuang approved his suggestion and confiscated the "Book of Songs", "Shangshu" and the works of various schools of thought, in order to make the people ignorant and make it impossible for people in the world to use ancient events to criticize the current court.
The revision of the legal system and the formulation of laws and regulations all started with Qin Shihuang.
Unified the writing system and built villas throughout the country. The next year, the First Emperor went on inspection tours and pacified the ethnic minorities in all directions. Li Si made a lot of efforts in these measures.
Li Si's eldest son Li You served as the governor of Sanchuan County. His sons all married Qin princesses, and his daughters all married Qin royal family members.
Once, when Li You, the governor of Sanchuan County, asked for leave to return to Xianyang, Li Si hosted a banquet at his home, and all the civil and military officials went to toast Li Si and congratulate him. There are thousands of carriages and horses in front of the gate.
Li Si sighed with emotion: Alas! I heard Xun Qing say that things are too taboo.
I, Li Si, was originally a commoner in Shangcai, a commoner in the streets. The emperor did not understand that I was of low talent, so he promoted me to such a high status.
Nowadays, no one who is a minister has a higher position than me. It can be said that I am extremely wealthy and prosperous.
However, the peak of development of things is about to begin to decline, and I still don’t know where it will end up in the future!
In October of the thirty-seventh year of Qin Shihuang, he went on a tour to Kuaiji Mountain, went north along the coast, and arrived at Langye Mountain.
Prime Minister Li Si and Zhao Gao, the magistrate of CRRC and Fu Xi, accompanied him.
Qin Shihuang had more than 20 sons. The eldest son Fusuyin repeatedly advised the emperor. The first emperor sent him to Shangjun to supervise the army, and Meng Tian was appointed general.
The youngest son Hu Hai was very favored and asked to accompany him, and the First Emperor agreed.
None of the other sons followed.
In July of this year, Qin Shihuang arrived at Shaqiu and was very ill. He ordered Zhao Gao to write an edict to his son Fusu, saying: Hand over the army to Meng Tian, ​​hurry to Xianyang to attend the funeral, and then bury him.
The letters were sealed, but before they were delivered to the envoy, Qin Shihuang passed away.
The letters and seals were all in the hands of Zhao Gao. Only his youngest son Hu Hai, Prime Ministers Li Si and Zhao Gao, and five or six trusted eunuchs knew about the death of the First Emperor. The rest of the officials did not know.
Li Si believed that the emperor died outside and the crown prince had not been officially established, so he kept it a secret and placed the body of the First Emperor in a car that could both keep warm and ventilate and cool him. The officials performed their duties and presented food and drinks as usual, so the eunuch pretended to ask the emperor to approve the reports from the car.
Therefore, Zhao Gao withheld the edict given by the First Emperor to Fusu, and said to his son Hu Hai: The emperor has passed away, and there is no edict to make all his sons kings. He only gave an edict to his eldest son Fusu.
When the eldest son arrives, he ascends the throne and becomes emperor, but you don’t even have a fief of any size. What should you do?
Hu Hai said: That’s how it is.
I have heard that a wise monarch knows his ministers best, and a wise father knows his son best.
When my father died, he did not issue an order to divide the princes, so what else could he say?
Zhao Gao said: Not so.
The power in the world today, no matter who's life or death, is in the hands of you, me and Li Si!
I hope you will think about it carefully. What's more, can controlling ministers and surrendering to others, ruling others and being ruled by others, be the same thing?
Hu Hai said: It is unrighteous to abolish an elder brother and establish a younger brother; it is unfilial to disobey the father's edict and fear death; it is incompetent to rely on the help of others because one's talents are shallow. These three things are treason and unethical, and the people in the world will not obey them. I will suffer disaster myself, and the country will perish.
Zhao Gao said: I have heard that Shang Tang and Zhou Wu killed their monarchs, and everyone in the world praised their actions as moral, and it cannot be regarded as disloyal.
King Wei killed his father, and the people of Wei praised his merits. Confucius recorded this incident, which cannot be regarded as unfilial.
What's more, you can't stick to small details when doing big things, and you don't need to be humble enough to do great virtues. The customs in the countryside are different, and the working methods of officials are also different.
Therefore, worrying about small things and forgetting big things will cause disaster in the future; being hesitant at critical moments will definitely regret it in the future.
If you do it decisively and boldly, you will avoid even ghosts and gods, and you will definitely succeed in the future.
I hope you do as I say.
Hu Hai sighed and said: Now that the emperor has just passed away and the funeral has not yet ended, how can we use this matter to appeal to the prime minister?
Zhao Gao said: Time, time, too short to plan!
Just like carrying dry food to drive a fast horse on the road, lest the opportunity be delayed!
After Hu Hai agreed with Zhao Gao's words, Zhao Gao said: If you don't discuss it with the Prime Minister, I'm afraid the matter will not succeed. I hope I can discuss it with the Prime Minister for you.
Zhao Gao said to Prime Minister Li Si: When the First Emperor passed away, he gave his eldest son Fusu an edict, ordering him to attend the funeral in Xianyang and establish him as his heir.
The emperor died before the edict was sent, and no one knew about it.
The imperial edict and talisman given to the eldest son by the emperor are all in Hu Hai's hands. Who should be appointed as the prince only depends on a word between you and me.
What should you do about this?
Li Si said: How can you say such words of subjugation to the country!
This is not something you should discuss as a minister!
Zhao Gao said: "Evaluate for yourself, who is more capable than Meng Tian?"
Who gets more credit? Who has more far-reaching plans and never makes mistakes? Who do the people of the world support more?
Who has a better relationship with the eldest son Fusu?
Li Si said: I am not as good as Meng Tian in these five aspects, but why are you so demanding on me?
Zhao Gao said: I was originally a slave of the eunuch. I was lucky enough to enter the Qin Palace because I was familiar with the prison law documents. I have been in charge for more than 20 years. I have never seen the prime ministers who were dismissed by the King of Qin get titles and pass them on to the next generation. In the end, they all ended up being killed.
The emperor had more than twenty sons, as you know.
The eldest son Fusu is resolute and brave, trusting and good at motivating scholars. After taking the throne, he must use Meng Tian as prime minister. Obviously, you will not be able to resign and return home with the seal of Tonghou in the end.
I have been ordered by the emperor to educate Hu Hai and let him study law for several years, and I have never seen him make any mistakes.
He was compassionate and kind, honest and kind, despised money, respected scholars, was smart but not good at words, and respected the wise with every courtesy. Among Qin Shihuang's sons, no one could catch up with him and could be established as his successor.
You think about it before you decide.
Li Si said: You should just do whatever you need to do!
I, Li Si, only carry out the emperor's last edict, and my own destiny is subject to God's arrangements. What should I consider and decide?
Zhao Gao said: It seems that peace may be dangerous, and danger may be safe.
If you don't make a decision early in the face of safety, how can you be considered a wise person?
Li Si said: I, Li Si, am a commoner in the streets and alleys of Shangcai. Thanks to the emperor's promotion, I was appointed prime minister and made a Marquis. My descendants will receive noble status and generous treatment. Therefore, the emperor has entrusted me with the important task of national security and survival. How can I live up to his trust?
A loyal minister will not be harsh and dedicated because of fear of death; a filial son will not harm his health by working too hard; ministers will only keep their respective duties.
Please stop talking and don't let me, Li Si, also commit crimes.
Zhao Gao said: I heard that saints do not follow the rules, but adapt to changes and follow the trend. They can predict the root when they see the signs, and they can predict the destination when they see the trends.
And things are just like this, there is no immutable truth!
Now the power and destiny of the world are in the hands of Hu Hai, and I, Zhao Gao, can guess his intentions.
What's more, to subdue the inside from the outside is rebellion, and to subdue the top from below is rebellion.
Therefore, when frost falls in autumn, flowers and plants will wither, and all things will be regenerated as the ice and snow melt. This is an inevitable result of nature.
How come you didn't even see this?
Li Si said: I heard that the change of crown princes in the Jin Dynasty caused unrest for three generations; the brothers Duke Huan of Qi fought for the throne and his elder brother was killed; Zhou of Shang killed relatives and did not listen to the advice of his ministers, so the capital was reduced to ruins and the country was endangered. These three things were against the will of God, so there was no one to worship in the ancestral temple.
I, Li Si, am still a human being, how can I participate in these conspiracies!
Zhao Gao said: If the top and bottom work together, the business can last for a long time; if the internal and external cooperation is consistent, there will be no mistakes.
If you follow my advice, you will be a marquis for a long time and pass it down forever. You will be as long-lived as the immortals Prince Qiao and Chisongzi, and as wise as Confucius and Mozi.
Giving up this opportunity now and not listening to my advice will definitely bring harm to future generations, which is chilling enough.
People who are good at dealing with people and moving with the camera can turn misfortunes into blessings. What do you want to do?
Li Si looked up to the sky and sighed with tears: Alas!
Unfortunately, we are in troubled times, and since I can no longer remain loyal to death, where will I place my destiny?
So Li Si obeyed Zhao Gao.
Zhao Gao then reported back to Hu Hai and said: I was sent to inform Prime Minister Li Si on your order, Crown Prince. How dare he disobey the order?
So they discussed together and forged an edict from Qin Shihuang to Prime Minister Li Si, making Hu Hai the crown prince.
He also forged an edict to his eldest son Fusu, saying: I travel around the world, praying and offering sacrifices to the gods of famous mountains in various places for longevity.
Now Fusu and General Meng Tian have led hundreds of thousands of troops to garrison the border for more than ten years. They have been unable to advance, and the soldiers have suffered many casualties. They have not made any achievements. Instead, they have written many times to bluntly slander what I have done. Because they cannot be dismissed and returned to Beijing to become the prince, they are resentful and dissatisfied day and night.
Fusu was unfilial as a human son and committed suicide with a sword!
General Meng Tian was out with Fusu. If he didn't correct his mistake, he should have known about his plan.
As a minister, he was not loyal, so he was ordered to commit suicide and handed over the army to the deputy general Wang Li.
He sealed the edict with the emperor's jade seal and asked Hu Hai's retainers to take the edict to Shangjun and hand it over to Fusu.
After the messenger arrived, Fusu opened the letter, cried, and entered the inner room to commit suicide.
Meng Tian stopped Fusu and said: "Your Majesty is away and has not established a prince. He has sent me to lead an army of 300,000 to guard the border. The prince will serve as the supervisor. This is an important task in the world."
Now that there is only one messenger coming, you immediately commit suicide. How can you know that there is no falsehood in it?
I hope you will ask for instructions again. It is not too late to die after asking for instructions.
The messenger urged again and again.
Fusu was a loyal man and said to Meng Tian: "My father ordered his son to die, what else do I need to ask for?"
Immediately commit suicide and die.
Meng Tian refused to commit suicide, so the envoy immediately handed him over to the legal officials and imprisoned him in Yang Zhou.
When the envoy came back to report, Hu Hai, Li Si, and Zhao Gao were all very happy.
After arriving in Xianyang, the funeral was announced, and Prince Hu Hai was established as the second emperor.
Zhao Gao was appointed as Lang Zhongling, always serving the emperor in the palace and holding great power.
Qin II had nothing to do in the palace, so he called Zhao Gao to discuss it together. He said to Zhao Gao: "A person's life in the world is as short as riding six horses and flying across a gap."
Now that I have ruled the world, I want to satisfy all the desires of my ears and eyes, enjoy all the fun I can think of, make the country peaceful, the people happy, protect the country forever, and enjoy the rest of my life. Is this idea possible?
Zhao Gao said: This can be done by a wise monarch, but it should be taboo by a confused monarch.
I took the liberty to say something that I am not afraid of beheading, so please pay more attention to your majesty.
All the princes and ministers are suspicious of Sha Qiu's conspiracy, and these princes are all your brothers, and these ministers were appointed by the late emperor.
Now that Your Majesty has just ascended the throne, these people are indignant and resentful, fearing that they will cause trouble.
What's more, although Meng Tian is dead, Meng Yi is still leading troops outside. The reason why I am worried is just that I am afraid that there will be bad results.
Your Majesty, how can you enjoy this?
The second said: What can we do?
Zhao Gao said: Implement strict laws and cruel punishments, kill all those who break the law and those who are implicated, until the entire clan is exterminated, kill the ministers of the dynasty and alienate your brothers and sisters, make the formerly poor people rich, and make the formerly humble people noble.
Eliminate all the former emperor's old ministers, re-appoint those you trust and keep them by your side.
In this way, they will be grateful to you from the bottom of their hearts, eradicate harm and put an end to treachery. No one in the group will not receive your favor and accept your kindness. Your Majesty, you can sit back and relax and enjoy yourself.
There is no better idea than this.
The Second Emperor believed that Zhao Gao's words were correct, so he revised the law.
So the ministers and princes were found guilty and handed over to Zhao Gao, who ordered him to be interrogated and brought to justice.
Minister Meng Yi and others were killed, ten princes were beheaded in the streets of Xianyang, and twelve princesses were also cut into pieces and executed in Du County. Their property was confiscated and returned to the emperor, and countless others were jointly punished.
Young Master Gao wanted to escape for his life, but he was afraid of being executed by the whole family, so he wrote a letter saying: When the late emperor was alive, I would give him food when he entered the palace and give him a ride when he left the palace.
The clothes in the emperor's palace were given to me by the late emperor; the horses in the stables in the palace were also given to me by the late emperor.
I should have died with the late Emperor but failed to do so. This is my unfilial piety as a son of man and my disloyalty as a minister.
There is no reason for a disloyal person to live in this world. Please allow me to die with the late emperor, hoping to bury me at the foot of Mount Li.
I just ask the emperor to pity me and agree to it.
After the book was presented, Hu Hai was very happy. He called Zhao Gao and showed him the book, saying: "This can be said to be embarrassing and helpless, right?"
Zhao Gao said: How can you plot a rebellion when the ministers are worried all day long that they will die before it is too late!
Hu Hai agreed to Gongzi Gao's request and gave him 100,000 yuan for burial.
At that time, the laws and punishments became more and more cruel day by day. Everyone among the ministers was in danger, and there were many people who wanted to rebel.
The second generation also built the Epang Palace, straight roads and galloping roads, taxes became heavier and heavier, and military service was endless.
So Chen Sheng, Wu Guang and others, who were recruited from Chu to guard the border, rebelled and raised troops to the east of Xiaoshan. Heroes and heroes swarmed up, proclaimed themselves princes and rebelled against the Qin Dynasty. Their troops attacked until Hongmen before retreating.
Li Si wanted to find opportunities to remonstrate many times, but the second emperor did not allow him.
Instead, the Second Emperor blamed Li Si and said: I have an opinion that I heard from Han Feizi. He said that when Yao ruled the world, the palace was only three feet high, the oak rafters were used without cutting them, and the thatched roofs were made without trimming. Even the accommodation conditions in the hotels were not more difficult than this.
Wearing deerskin coats in winter and linen clothes in summer, making coarse rice for rice and wild vegetables for soup, eating from earthen pots and drinking water from earthen bowls, even a janitor's life cannot be more miserable than this.
Xia Yu opened the dragon gate, opened the Great Xia Waterway, dredged many rivers, built many dikes in twists and turns, and channeled the stagnant water into the sea. There was no white meat on the thighs, no hair on the calves, thick calluses on the palms and soles, and a dark face. In the end, he died of exhaustion and was buried on Kuaiji Mountain. Even a slave's labor would not be worse than this.
However, does the purpose of those who regard ruling the world as a noble thing just want to worry about it, live in a dormitory like a hotel, eat the food of a janitor, and do the work of a slave?
These things are done by people with low talents, not by wise people.
When those wise people rule the world, they just use everything in the world to satisfy their own desires. This is why they regard ruling the world as nothing noble.
What people call wise people can definitely stabilize the world and govern the people. If they can't even benefit themselves, how can they govern the world?
That’s why I want to have broad aspirations and enjoy the world forever without any harm. What to do?
Li Si's son Li You was appointed as the governor of Sanchuan County. Wu Guang and others who rebelled moved westward to occupy the territory and came and went as they pleased, but Li You could not stop him.
After Zhang Han defeated and expelled the army of Wu Guang and others, he sent envoys to Sanchuan to investigate one after another, and blamed Li Si for why he allowed the thieves to be so rampant as he was the third prince.
Li Si was very frightened, and he valued his title and salary very seriously. He didn't know what to do, so he listened to Ashun II's wishes and asked for forgiveness, so he wrote a letter to reply to Ashun II:
A wise monarch must be one who is able to fully grasp the way to be a monarch and exercise the skills to govern his subordinates.
If the subordinates are strictly supervised and supervised, the ministers will not dare not do their best to serve the monarch.
In this way, once the duties of the monarch and his ministers are determined, and the rules for the relationship between superiors and subordinates are also clear, then no one in the world, whether talented or virtuous, will dare not not do their best to serve the monarch.
Therefore, the monarch can dominate the world without any restrictions and enjoy the ultimate pleasure.
Wise monarch, how can you not see this clearly!
Therefore, Mr. Shen Buhe said: If you possess the world but do not know how to indulge your lust, this is called treating the world as your own shackles. This saying has no other meaning. It just means that you do not supervise your subordinates, but work hard for the people of the world, like Yao and Yu, so it is called "shackles".
If you can't learn from Shen Buhai and Han Fei's brilliant spells, implement supervision measures, and focus on making yourself comfortable and happy with the world, but just worry about it in vain and work hard for the people, then you are the slaves of the people, not the emperor who rules the world. What is worthy of honor in this!
If you let others devote themselves to you, you will be noble and others will be humble; if you let yourself devote yourself to others, you will be humble and others will be noble.
Therefore, those who devote themselves are humble, and those who accept sacrifice are noble. This has always been the case from ancient times to the present.
Since ancient times, the reason why virtuous people are respected is because the respected people are noble; the reason why unworthy people are hated is because the unworthy people are humble.
Yao and Yu were people who dedicated their lives to the world. They respected them based on the world's evaluation. This also lost the intention of respecting the virtuous. This can be said to be a huge mistake.
Isn't it also appropriate to say that Yao and Yu regarded the world as their "shackles"?
This is a fault that cannot be blamed.
So Mr. Han Fei said that a loving mother will raise a prodigal son, but a strict master will not have strong slaves in his family. Why?
This is the inevitable result of being able to impose severe punishments.
Therefore, Shang Yang's new law stipulates that anyone who spreads ashes on the road will be sentenced.
Sprinkling ashes on the road is a minor offense, but adding punishment to it is a severe penalty.
Only a wise monarch can severely punish misdemeanors.
If you are severely punished for a misdemeanor, how much more serious crimes?
Therefore, people dare not break the law.
Therefore, Mr. Han Fei said: Most people will take away a few feet of silk cloth when they see it. Thieves will not take away a hundred yi of beautiful gold. This is not because ordinary people are greedy. A few feet of silk are extremely valuable and thieves have an indifferent desire for profit. Nor is it because thieves behave noblely and despise the huge profit of a hundred yi gold.
The reason is that once captured, they will be punished casually, so the thieves dare not seize the white gold; if the punishment is not resolutely imposed, then ordinary people will not give up a few feet of silk.
Therefore, Lou Ji dare not offend the city wall that is five feet high; Mount Tai is a hundred feet high, but a lame shepherd dares to graze on it.
Could it be that Lou Ji thought it was difficult to climb the five-foot-high city wall, while the lame shepherd thought it was easy to climb the hundred-foot-high Mount Tai?
This is because steepness and gentleness are different situations.
The reason why sage monarchs can hold high positions for a long time, hold great power, and monopolize the interests of the world alone is not because they have any special methods, but because they can monopolize power, are good at supervising responsibilities, and must severely punish those who break the law, so the people of the world dare not violate it.
If we do not formulate measures to prevent crime now and follow the example of a loving mother raising a prodigal son, we would be completely ignorant of the opinions of the sages of previous generations.
If you cannot implement the method of a sage to govern the world, what else can you do except serve as a slave to the world?
Isn't this so sad?
What's more, when a frugal and benevolent person serves in the court, the absurd and unrestrained fun must be suspended; when exhortation and truth-telling ministers are around to interfere, the unscrupulous thoughts must be restrained; when the behavior of a martyr's death festival is praised by the world, indulgent entertainment must be given up.
Therefore, a sage monarch can exclude these three types of people, control the power of rule alone, control his obedient ministers, and establish a strict legal system, so he is noble and powerful.
All wise monarchs can go against the world's trends, change folk customs, abandon what they hate, and establish what they like. Therefore, they only have noble power when they are alive, and they have the posthumous title of wise after their death.
It is precisely because of this that a wise monarch centralizes power and is authoritarian to prevent power from falling into the hands of his subordinates. Then he can cut off the road of benevolence and righteousness, block the mouth of lobbying, and embarrass the martyrs' deadly behavior.
Therefore, Zhuo Nao can do whatever he wants without anyone daring to resist.
Like this, only then can we say that we have understood the ruling techniques of Shen Buhai and Han Fei, and learned the legal system of Shang Yang.
If the rule of law and the art of governance are learned and understood well, the world will still be in chaos. I have never heard of such a thing.
Therefore, some people say: The emperor's rule is simple and easy to implement.
Only a wise king can do this.
Only in this way can it be said that supervision and responsibilities are truly implemented, and the ministers will not have any thoughts of divorce, and the world will be stable. Only when the world is stable can the monarch have the dignity. Only when the monarch has dignity can the supervision and responsibilities be strictly implemented. Only when the supervision and responsibilities are strictly implemented can the monarch's desires be satisfied. Only when they are satisfied can the country be rich and powerful. Only when the country is rich and powerful can the monarch enjoy more.
Therefore, once the art of supervision and accountability is established, any desire of the monarch can be satisfied.
It is too late for the ministers and the people to remedy their own mistakes, so how can they dare to plot rebellion?
In this way, it can be said that one has mastered the emperor's ruling skills, and can also be said to have understood the method of controlling his ministers.
Even if Shen Buhai and Han Fei are resurrected, they cannot go beyond that.
After the answer was submitted, the second generation was very happy after reading it.
So we implemented supervision and responsibilities more strictly, and the more taxes we collected from the people, the wiser the officials became.
The Second Emperor said: Only in this way can one be said to be good at supervising and punishing people.
Half of the pedestrians on the road are prisoners. The corpses of newly killed people are piled up every day in the market, and the more people kill, the more loyal they become.
The Second Emperor said: Only in this way can we be called to practice supervision.
At first, when Zhao Gao was serving as Lang Zhongling, he killed many people and framed many people for personal revenge. He was afraid that the ministers would expose him to the Second Emperor when he came to court, so he persuaded the Second Emperor: The reason why the emperor is noble is that the ministers can only hear his voice but not see his face, so they call themselves "I".
Moreover, Your Majesty is still very young and may not know everything. Now that you are sitting in the court, if the punishments and rewards are inappropriate, your shortcomings will be exposed to the ministers, and you will not be able to show your wisdom to the world.
Your Majesty might as well stay in the palace, stay with me and the servants who are familiar with the law, and wait for the minister to submit the official report. Once the official document is submitted, we can study and make a decision.
In this way, ministers will not dare to report difficult matters, and people in the world will call you the Lord of Sage.
The Second Emperor followed Zhao Gao's advice and no longer sat in the court to receive ministers, but lived deep in the palace.
Zhao Gao always serves the emperor and all official affairs are decided by Zhao Gao.
Zhao Gao heard that Li Si was dissatisfied with this, so he went to Li Si and said: There are many thieves in the area east of Hangu Pass, but now the emperor is stepping up his efforts to send laborers to build Afang Palace and collect dogs, horses and other useless playthings.
I want to remonstrate, but my position is humble.
But it's really your prime minister's business, why don't you give me advice?
Li Si said, "It's true. I've wanted to talk for a long time."
But now the emperor does not come to court to listen to the government, but always lives in the palace. Although I have something to say, it is inconvenient for others to convey it. I want to see the emperor but I have no chance.
Zhao Gao said to him: If you can really advise me, please allow me to inquire for you. As soon as the emperor is free, I will inform you immediately.
So Zhao Gao took advantage of the fact that the second son was living and entertaining, and the beautiful woman was in front of him, and sent someone to tell the prime minister: The emperor is free and can come to the palace to report something.
Prime Minister Li Si went to the palace gate to ask for an audience, which happened three times in a row.
The Second Emperor was very angry and said: I usually have a lot of free days, and the Prime Minister doesn't even come.
Whenever I was resting in my dormitory, the Prime Minister would come to ask for instructions.
Does the Prime Minister look down on me?
Or do you think I'm mean?
Zhao Gao took the opportunity and said: "It's too dangerous for you to speak like this!"
The Prime Minister was involved in Sand Dune's conspiracy.
Now that your Majesty has ascended the throne, but the Prime Minister's status has not improved, it is obvious that he wants to cede territory and become king!
If you don't ask me, Emperor, I dare not tell you.
The prime minister's eldest son Li You served as the governor of Sanchuan County. The Chu bandit Chen Sheng and others were from the neighboring counties of the prime minister's hometown, so they dared to openly run rampant. When passing through Sanchuan, Li You just defended the city and did not attack.
I had heard that there were letters between them, but I had not investigated it clearly, so I did not dare to report it to His Majesty.
What's more, the Prime Minister is outside and has more power than His Majesty.
The Second Emperor believed that Zhao Gao's words were correct and wanted to deal with the prime minister. However, he was worried that the situation was untrue, so he sent people to investigate the details of the collusion between Sanchuan County Governor and the thieves.
Li Si knew the news.
At that time, the emperor was watching wrestling and burlesque performances at Ganquan Palace.
Li Si could not come to see him, so he wrote a letter to expose Zhao Gao's shortcomings and said: I heard that no minister can be as good as the monarch without harming the country; no concubine can be as good as her husband without harming the family.
Some ministers now have the power of rewards and punishments without authorization, and they are no different from you. This is very inappropriate.
In the past, Sicheng Zihan was the prime minister of the Song Dynasty. He had the power of punishment and acted with authority. One year later, he hijacked the king of the Song Dynasty and usurped the throne.
Tian Chang served as a minister of Duke Jian of Qi. His title was so high that no one in the country could rival him. His own wealth was as much as that of the public family. He performed favors and benevolence, winning the love of the people and the support of the ministers. He secretly stole the power of Qi State, killed Zaiyu in the hall, and killed Duke Jian of Qi in the court. In this way, he completely controlled Qi State.
Everyone in the world knows this.
Now Zhao Gao has an excessive ambition to ward off evil and behaves treacherously and rebelliously, just like Zihan did when he was the prime minister of Song Dynasty; his private wealth is as much as Tian Chang's in Qi Dynasty.
He also used the rebellious methods of Tian Chang and Zihan to steal your majesty's prestige. His ambition was just like that of Han Qi when he was the prime minister of Han An.
Your Majesty, if you don't plan ahead, I'm worried that he will launch a rebellion sooner or later.
The second said: What are these words?
Zhao Gao was originally an eunuch, but he did not do whatever he wanted just because he was in a comfortable situation, nor did he change his loyalty because he was in a dangerous situation. He was honest and devoted to good deeds. He got where he is today through his own efforts. He was promoted because of his loyalty and kept his position because of his faith. I do think he is a talented person, but you doubt him. What is the reason?
In addition, I lost my father at a young age and have little knowledge and do not know how to manage people. And you are old, so I am worried that you will be isolated from the people of the world.
If I don't entrust the state affairs to Zhao Gao, who else should I use?
Besides, Mr. Zhao is a shrewd and honest man, he does his best, understands the people's conditions below, and adapts to my wishes above, please don't doubt it.
Li Si said: Not so.
Zhao Gao used to be a humble man who didn't understand the truth, was greedy and constantly seeking profit. His status and power were second only to His Majesty, but his desire for status and power was endless, so I say it was very dangerous.
The second son had believed Zhao Gao in the morning and was worried that Li Si would kill him, so he secretly told Zhao Gao these words.
Zhao Gao said: The prime minister is only worried about me, Zhao Gao. After my death, the prime minister can do what Tian Chang did.
So the Second Emperor said: Let Li Si be handed over to you, the doctor, to investigate and deal with it!
Zhao Gao investigates Li Si.
After Li Si was arrested, he was put on a torture device and imprisoned in prison. He looked up to the sky and sighed: Oh! How sad!
How can the ignorant and foolish king advise him!
In the past Xia Jie killed Guan Longfeng, Shang Zhou killed Prince Bigan, and Wu Wang Fucha killed Wu Zixu.
Are these three ministers disloyal? However, death was inevitable. Although they died loyally, it was a pity that they were not loyal to the people they were.
Now my wisdom cannot keep up with these three people, and the cruelty and cruelty of the second generation exceeds that of Jie, Zhou, and Fu Cha. It is right for me to die because of my loyalty.
Besides, isn’t it nonsense to govern the country in the second generation?
Not long ago, he killed his brother and established himself as the emperor. He also killed loyal people, reused lowly people, built the Epang Palace, and levied tyrannical taxes on the people of the world.
It's not that I don't give advice, it's that he doesn't listen to me.
All ancient sages and emperors had a certain degree of restraint in their diet, a certain number of vehicles, horses, and utensils, and a certain limit in their palaces. They issued orders and did things, and prohibited anything that increased expenses and was not conducive to the people, so that long-term peace and stability could be achieved.
Now the second generation is using unnatural and cruel methods on his brothers, without considering what disasters will happen. He persecutes and kills loyal ministers without considering what disasters will happen. He vigorously builds palaces, increases taxes on the people of the world, and does not hesitate to spend money. After these three measures were implemented, the people of the world did not obey.
Now the rebels have accounted for half of the people in the world, but the second generation has not yet awakened in his heart, and actually appointed Zhao Gao as his assistant. I will definitely see the thieves invade Xianyang and turn the court into a place where elk roam.
So the Second Emperor sent Zhao Gao to examine the prime minister's case, punish him, inquire about Li Si and his son Li You's rebellion, and arrest all his guests and family members.
Zhao Gao punished Li Si and tortured him more than a thousand times. Li Si could not bear the painful torture and unjustly confessed.
The reason why Li Si did not commit suicide was that he was arrogant and eloquent, and he had made great contributions to the Qin State. He really had no intention of rebellion. He hoped to write a letter to defend himself, and hoped that the Second Emperor would wake up and pardon him.
Li Si then wrote a letter in prison saying: I have been serving as prime minister to govern the people for more than thirty years.
When I came to Qin, the territory was still very small.
During the time of the late king, the land of Qin was no more than a thousand miles long, and its soldiers were no more than a few hundred thousand.
I used up my meager talents, carefully implemented the decree, secretly dispatched advisers, funded them with gold, silver and jewels, let them lobby in various countries, secretly prepared armies, rectified politics and education, appointed brave and capable officials as officials, and promoted The social status of the heroes gave them high titles and salaries, so they finally threatened South Korea, weakened Wei, defeated Yan and Zhao, flattened Qi and Chu, and finally annexed the six countries, captured their kings, and made King Qin the emperor.
This is my first crime.
The territory of Qin State is not vast. It has to expel the barbarians and raccoon dogs in the north and pacify Baiyue in the south to show the power of Qin State.
This is my second crime.
Respect ministers and improve their titles to consolidate their close relationship with the King of Qin.
This is my third crime.
Establish the state and build ancestral temples to show the lord's wisdom.
This is my fourth crime.
Change the symbols engraved on the scales, unify weights, measures and words, and promulgate them to the world to establish the prestige of the Qin Dynasty.
This is my fifth crime.
Build roads and places for sightseeing to show that the Lord is satisfied with his will.
This is my sixth crime.
Lighten penalties and reduce taxes to satisfy the Lord's desire to win over the people, so that all people will support the Emperor and never forget the Emperor's kindness until death.
This is my seventh crime.
It has been a long time since a minister like me, Li Si, committed a crime worthy of death. The emperor hopes that I will do my best to survive to this day. I hope your majesty will understand.
After the memorial was submitted, Zhao Gao asked the jailer to throw it aside instead of reporting it, saying: "How can a prisoner submit a petition!"
Zhao Gao sent more than ten of his disciples to pretend to be censors, visitors, and servants, and took turns interrogating Li Si.
When Li Si responded truthfully, Zhao Gao had people torture him again.
Later, the Second Emperor sent someone to verify Li Si's confession. Li Si thought it was the same as before, so he finally dared not change his confession and admitted his guilt in the confession.
Zhao Gao presented the verdict to the emperor, and the second emperor said happily: Without Zhao Jun, I was almost betrayed by the prime minister.
By the time the envoy from the Second Sect arrived in Sanchuan to investigate Li You, Xiang Liang had already killed him.
When the envoy returned, just as Li Si had been handed over to the custody of the jailers, Zhao Gao fabricated a whole set of charges against Li You for treason.
In July of the second year of the Second Emperor's reign, Li Si was sentenced to five punishments and sentenced to be cut in half in the Xianyang market.
When Li Si was released from prison, he was escorted together with his second son. He turned around and said to his second son: I want to go out to Cai Dongmen with you and lead the yellow dog to hunt and chase cunning rabbits, but how can we do it?
So the father and son cried bitterly to each other, and all the people of the three tribes were executed.
After Li Si's death, the second emperor appointed Zhao Gao as the prime minister. Zhao Gao made all the decisions, no matter how big or small.
Zhao Gao knew that he had too much power, so he offered a deer and called it a horse.
The Second Emperor asked his attendants: Is this a deer?
Everyone said: It's a horse.
The second generation panicked, thinking that he was confused, so he summoned the fortune teller and asked him to calculate a divination. Taibu said: Your Majesty goes to the countryside to offer sacrifices in the spring and autumn, and worships the ghosts and gods of the ancestral temple. He is not pious when fasting, and that is why he is like this.
You can fast again sincerely according to the appearance of a sage monarch.
So the second generation went to Shanglin Garden to fast.
He spent the whole day playing hunting in Shanglin Garden. Once a pedestrian walked into Shanglin Garden, and he shot him to death with his own hands.
Zhao Gao asked his son-in-law Yan Le of Xianyang to come forward to impeach, saying that someone unknown killed the person and moved the body into Shanglin Garden.
Zhao Gao advised the Second Emperor to say: The emperor kills innocent people for no reason. This is not allowed by God, and ghosts and gods will not accept your sacrifice. God will bring disasters, and you should stay away from the palace to pray for relief.
The second generation left the palace and went to live in Wangyi Palace.
The Second Emperor stayed in Wangyi Palace for three days. Zhao Gao pretended to be the Second Emperor's order and asked the guards to wear white clothes and face the palace with weapons in hand. He entered the palace and told the Second Emperor: Bandits from all walks of life in Shandong are coming in large numbers!
The Second Emperor went to the balcony to watch and saw the guards heading into the palace with weapons. He was very frightened. Zhao Gao immediately forced the Second Emperor to commit suicide.
Then he took the jade seal and carried it with him. None of the civil and military officials around him followed him. When he ascended the hall, it seemed to collapse several times.
Zhao Gao knew that God would not grant him the position of emperor, and the officials would not agree, so he called the younger brother of Qin Shihuang's younger brother and handed the jade seal to him.
After Ziying came to the throne, he was worried that Zhao Gao would cause trouble again, so he pretended to be ill and did not go to court to handle government affairs. He discussed with the eunuch Han Tan and his son how to kill Zhao Gao.
Zhao Gao came to see him and asked about his condition. Ziying summoned him to the palace and ordered Han Tan to assassinate him and annihilate his three clans.
Three months after Ziying came to the throne, Liu Bang's army invaded from Wuguan and arrived in Xianyang. All civil and military officials revolted against Qin and did not resist Pei Gong.
Ziying, his wife and children all tied ribbons around their necks and went to Zhidao Pavilion to surrender.
Liu Bang handed them over to the custody of his subordinate officials.
Xiang Yu killed them after arriving in Xianyang, and Qin lost the world.
Tai Shigong said: As a commoner in an alley, Li Si traveled to the princes, entered the customs to serve the Qin State, seized the opportunity, assisted Qin Shihuang, and finally completed the great cause of unification. Li Si occupies the position of the Three Officials and can be said to be very important.
Li Si knew the gist of the Confucian "Six Classics", but he did not devote himself to political clarity to make up for the emperor's faults. Instead, relying on his noble status, he flattered and followed at will, implemented harsh methods of torture, listened to Zhao Gao's heresy, abolished his legitimate son Fusu and established his concubine Hu Hai.
When rebellions broke out in various places, Li Si wanted to directly advise him. Isn't this too stupid?
People think that Li Si was so loyal that he died of five punishments. However, when I carefully examined the truth of the matter, I found it was different from the popular view.
Otherwise, Li Si's achievements would really be comparable to Duke Zhou and Duke Zhao.
