Empress Xia Yuan Jing Yu, Yu Zhang Jun Ming, Empress Mu Yu became Gong Du Empress
Concubine Zhang, Queen Kang Xian, Queen Mu Zhanghe, Queen Aijing
The deposed emperor, Empress Xiaoyu, Jian Wenxuan, the Empress Dowager Zheng, Jian Wenshun, the king
Empress Xiaowuwen Li Empress Dowager Xiaowu Dingwang Empress Ande Chen Empress Dowager Anxi Wang Empress Gongsi Chu Empress
Queen Yuan Jingyu's name was Meng Mu, a native of Jiyang Waihuang.
His father's name is Yu Yu, and his deeds can be found in "The Biography of Foreign Relatives".
When Emperor Yuan was King Langxie, he married the queen as his concubine and had no sons.
He died in the sixth year of Yongjia at the age of thirty-five.
When Emperor Yuan became the king of Jin, he gave her the title of queen.
Officials reported that the queen should build another temple.
Emperor Yuan ordered: "The ancestral temple has not yet been completed, and it is inconvenient to build another one. The house above the mausoleum can be renovated and used as a temple."
In the third year of Taixing, the second book says: The emperor lamented the former Langxie Princess Yu: I respectfully obeyed the orders of God, and therefore ascended the throne of God. I mourn the past of the concubine, her good name has not been promoted, there are no etiquette and regulations to govern the country, and the education in the harem is not enough, so I feel sad.
The gift of the title Dingmi is an old code of the former kings.
Today, envoy Chijie and Taiwei Wan Sheng were sent to present a posthumous jade seal to the Queen and use Tailao as a sacrifice.
If the Queen's soul has a spirit, she should be honored.
So he was offered sacrifices to the Imperial Ancestral Temple and buried in Jianping Mausoleum.
During the Taining period, Emperor Ming commemorated his mother's kindness in raising her and gave Yuzhang's wife Wang as the queen of Qiuyang County. His aunt Sanqi often served as the wife of Sima Han, the king of Xinye, as the queen of Pingyang Township.
The Xun family of Yuzhang Jun was a palace member of Emperor Yuan.
After being favored at first, she gave birth to Emperor Ming and King Langxie Sima Sui, so she was hated by Empress Yu.
Because of his low status and constant resentment, he was condemned by Emperor Yuan and gradually became alienated and neglected.
When Emperor Ming came to the throne, he was granted the title of Jianxuanzhou and built another residence.
In the first year of Zuo Zhen's reign, Dandao welcomed her back to the palace and provided her with grand and generous supplies.
When Emperor Cheng came to the throne, he treated her with the same respect as the Queen Mother.
He died in the first year of Xiankang.
Shao Shu said: I suffered misfortune when I was young, but it was Jian Sairi who taught me lovingly and worked hard to raise me.
Once I pass away, I really want to repay the favor and will always miss the past and be sentimental and sad.
He was given the title of Yuzhang County Lord and built another temple in Kyoto.
Empress Muyu of the Ming Dynasty was named Wenjun and was a native of Yanling, Yingchuan. His father Yu Bi's deeds can be found in "The Biography of Foreign Relatives".
The queen has a kind temperament and beautiful appearance.
After Emperor Yuan heard about it, he appointed her as the crown princess, and she was respected for her good virtues.
Emperor Ming ascended the throne and became queen.
The book says: Concubine Yu previously followed the Holy Order and served as a concubine in the East Palace. She was respectful of women, loving and courteous.
Act faithfully and think obediently to achieve harmony; help to correct the order of the harem, so it has the reputation of harmony and harmony.
I have experienced misfortune in the past and was lonely as if I was sick.
The ministers have examined the past dynasties and found that the most important thing is to respect the direct relatives and distinguish the orthodoxy. It is recorded in the classics that the Queen's Palace should be built to worship the ancestral temple.
To recall the wishes of the late emperor, without abandoning the old orders, he sent envoy Chijie and Taiwei to present the seal and ribbon to the queen.
Women's morality advocates femininity, women's conduct should flatter their mother-in-law, respect the etiquette of sacrifices, and value the morality of having many children and grandchildren. Therefore, if you remain chaste forever, you can carry forward the royal family's legacy, become a role model for mothers in the world, and promote the education of the harem.
Drawing lessons from the Six Biographies and examining classics, we can see that good and bad fortunes are uncertain. The ups and downs depend on people. Although they are praised, they do not rely on themselves.
Be respectful, how can you not be cautious!
When Emperor Cheng ascended the throne, he revered the queen as the empress dowager.
The ministers petitioned and said: The emperor is young and should follow the old rules of the Han Dynasty and Queen Xi.
The queen resigned many times and had no choice but to come to serve as regent.
The queen's brother Zhongshu ordered Likui to manage the edicts and orders. When the minister reported the matter, he called her Majesty the Empress Dowager.
In the first year of Xianhe's reign, relevant officials petitioned to posthumously gift the Queen's father and wife Danqiu, but Queen Chen refused to agree and refused to comply three times.
When Su Jun rebelled, Kyoto was overthrown, and the queen was forced and humiliated. She died of sorrow at the age of thirty-two.
The queen reigned for six years.
The emperor's thoughts and kindness were endless, and he gave posthumously to the queen's father, General Yu Chen, the Hsiaoqi General, and the Third Division of Yitong, to his mother, the Qiu Family Lord of Anling County, to his aunt, Bao Ya, the Lord of Yongning County, and to his aunt, Tandan, the Lord of Jian'an County.
The above table states the queen's will during her lifetime, and she will not accept it.
Queen Chenggongdu was named Lingyang, a native of Jingzhao, and the great-granddaughter of General Yuzhi of Zhennan.
His father became an emperor, and his deeds can be found in "The Biography of Wife's Relatives".
Because the empress's family was famous for their virtues, Emperor Cheng prepared a gift in the second year of Xiankang to appoint her as empress and entered the palace on the same day.
When Emperor Cheng ascended the Tai Chi front hall, all the ministers came to congratulate him. After daylight passed, it was time to lock the palace door and leave the officials. The queen was beautiful when she was young, but she still had no teeth when she grew up, and she gave up proposals midway.
On the day Emperor Cheng prepared a ceremony to marry her, the queen's teeth grew overnight.
Lingyang County in Xuancheng was changed to Guangyang County.
In March of the seventh year, the queen died at the age of twenty-one.
Officials outside the palace enter the mourning hall once every five days, and officials inside the palace enter the mourning hall once a day until the burial is completed.
The queen reigned for six years and had no children.
Before that, women in the Sanwu area wore white flowers in their hair when they were together, which looked like white sand fruit flowers. It was said that the Weaver Girl in the sky died and she was dressed in mourning clothes. At this time, the queen passed away.
Emperor Cheng issued an edict saying: Ceremonies for good and bad things should indeed be carried out; however, the standard of abundance or simplicity should also conform to the current situation. Moreover, it is useless to build on a large scale deep underground!
Nowadays, everything about the mausoleum should be kept simple. The mausoleum should be clean. It is not allowed to bury people with painted carts and straw.
Relevant officials asked for the construction of the evil gate Baili and the appointment of the concubine, but they did not agree. It is also forbidden to send envoys to far and near places. The following year at the New Year's Day meeting, the relevant officials requested that the music be abolished.
Emperor Cheng issued an edict to abolish orchestral music, but Jinshi music was still played.
Emperor Xiaowu ascended the throne, and in the second year of Ningkang, he named Pei, the queen's mother, the Queen of Guangde County.
Pei's name is Mu. She is the granddaughter of Pei Chuo, the captain of Changshui School, the daughter of Pei Xia, the chief regent of Taifu, and the granddaughter of Wang Yifu, the captain of Taifu.
The prominence of the cousin relationship was famous at the time.
Pei Xia followed Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, and was killed, leaving him without a son. Only Pei Mu crossed the river, so he enjoyed the glory and built a house outside Nanye Gate, which is also known as Du Lao's house.
Zhang Taifei Zhou was elected to the Chengdi Palace and was favored. She gave birth to Emperor Ai and Duke Haixi.
Start as a noble person.
When Emperor Ai came to the throne, he asked the relevant officials to discuss the names and titles of nobles. Taiwei Huanwen thought that he should be called madam, and Shangshu servant She Jiangbu thought that he should be called Taifu. Emperor Ai of Xia Shao honored her as the imperial concubine, and her ceremonial attire was the same as that of the empress dowager.
He also wrote to Shao Shu and said: If the court minister is disrespectful to the concubine, does it violate the laws and etiquette?
Taichang Jiang Di commented: "Famous position is not the highest, so we should not be extremely respectful."
In the first year of Xingning, the concubine passed away.
Emperor Ai planned to undergo heavy mourning, so Jiang Diaozou ordered him to take gill anesthesia for three months.
Emperor Ai went to Shao and planned to change the period to one year. Jiang Fan asked Jiang Bang to express his feelings of grievance. It was because he respected his ancestors, so Emperor Ai obeyed him.
Queen Kangxianchu was named Suanzi, and she was from Yangzhai, Henan.
His father Kang Pei's deeds can be found in "The Biography of Foreign Relatives".
The queen was smart, knowledgeable, and was selected as Princess Langxie as a young lady from a well-known family.
Emperor Kang ascended the throne, made her the queen, and named her mother Xie Ya the monarch of Xunyang Township.
Emperor Mu ascended the throne and honored the queen as the empress dowager.
At that time, the emperor was young and had not yet taken charge of the government.
The leader, Situ Cai Mo, and others reported: The emperor who ascends the throne is smart from birth, inherits the imperial lineage, returns home at home, and the people rely on him.
Your Majesty understands the ways of women, and his teachings are better than those of the mother of virtue.
In the past, the Tushan clan made the Xia Dynasty prosperous, and Jian Di made the Yin and Shang Dynasties prosperous. It was actually because they showed sages and made the country prosperous.
We believe that His Majesty's virtue is comparable to that of Er Yan, and his beauty is better than that of the concubine in "Guan Ju". He should serve as regent to bring peace to the world.
Nowadays, the country is in crisis and the fate of the people is uncertain. We are panic-stricken. There are many important national events in one day. The timing and deadline of events are what God values ​​when blessing. Now is no longer a day of being noble and humble.
He Xi and Shun Lie of the Han Dynasty both attended the court and listened to the government. In modern times, Queen Mu of the Ming Dynasty listened to the government, which is the system of ancestors.
We were very sad and frightened, so we knelt down and begged respectfully.
I beg your Majesty to obey the wishes of the ancestors above and to care about the ministers and officials below, and to promote morality with a public heart in order to comply with the will of God and the wishes of people. In this way, the world will celebrate and the people will be reborn.
The Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: The emperor is young and should rely on his ministers to help him correct his faults with his virtues, in order to repay the late emperor's kindness in treating others with courtesy. Moreover, the benefits of old virtues and current salvation are not more important than being able to prevent destiny and have people who flatter the ancestors' inheritance, so the throne must be confirmed in the palace.
The memorial is sincere and thoughtful, and it is revealed in the pen and ink. Even before I read it, I felt sad and scared.
The queen of the previous dynasty was honest, respectful, modest, and obedient to women. The reason why she did not refuse the invitations of the ministers was for the sake of the country.
How dare I stick to the young emperor and go against the late emperor's will.
He listened respectfully.
So he came to the court to listen to the government.
Relevant officials reported that Mrs. Xie had been granted the title, and that Mrs. Xun and Bian should also be granted titles posthumously. They were both ex-wives of the queen's father.
The Queen Mother did not allow it.
Taichang Yin Rong's memorial was based on Zheng Xuan's etiquette. General Chu Su of the Wei Dynasty respected the Queen Mother according to the court etiquette, and the Queen Mother followed the etiquette at home when she went home to visit relatives.
The Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: I really don't know the ceremony. If it is exactly as it is performed, then I will not be able to rest assured because of family ties. We should discuss it again.
Sima Yi, the general who conquered the West, and Sima Shang, the Nanzhong Lang, reported that respect for the father is limited to one family, and respect for the king is more important than the world. Zheng Xuan's etiquette is reasonable.
The Queen Mother obeyed.
From then on, all the ministers in the court respected Chu Ai.
After the emperor was crowned, the Empress Dowager issued an edict saying: In the past, misfortune occurred. The emperor was young and the royal career was in decline, just like the jade beads hanging from the crown.
The princes and ministers all followed the previous dynasty and persuaded me to take over as regent.
Because the country is important and the past generations have set examples, I try my best to obey and have no time to stick to the ways of women.
Relying on the gods of the seven temples and relying on the power of the princes, the emperor performed the crowning ceremony. With the etiquette completed and his virtues complete, he should face south to handle government affairs and rule all nations.
Now that I have returned political power, there are still rules and regulations.
So he stayed in Chongde Palace and issued an edict to the ministers: In the past, because the emperor was young, he obeyed the advice of the princes. Because of my lack of ability and frequent difficulties, I sacrificed my late father and was deeply worried about mourning.
Situ was highly respected and pointed out that the shortcomings of the country should be corrected. The royal family did not decline. It was really thanks to Situ.
The emperor has completed the crowning ceremony, but the world has not yet been unified. The five barbarians are rebellious, the wolves are in power, the wealth and labor are increasing day by day, and the people are in poverty.
I hope that all gentlemen will consider the long term and work together to assist and protect the young emperor and correct the shortcomings.
I will return to another palace forever and spend the rest of my life.
It's all for the country, I express my thoughts with these words.
When Emperor Ai and Duke Haixi were in power, the Queen Mother came to serve as regent.
When Dan Tan was deposing Yiyou Gong, the Queen Mother was burning incense in the Buddhist hall. The chamberlain reported that there was an urgent memorial outside, and the Queen Mother came out.
He leaned against the door and read a few lines of the memorial, then said that I had such doubts. I stopped reading halfway through, and wanted to write a reply to the memorial: I have experienced all kinds of sorrows, and when I think of the living and the dead, my heart is like a knife.
When Huan Wen first submitted the draft of the edict, he was worried that the Queen Mother would have objections, and he was afraid that he would sweat, and his panic showed on his face.
When the edict came out, Huan Wen was overjoyed.
Emperor Jian Wen ascended the throne and honored the Queen Mother as Queen Mother Chongde.
When the emperor died, Emperor Xiaowu was young, and Huan Wen died again.
The officials began to report: The royal family is troubled, and there are frequent disasters and funerals. Just after the national mourning, the prime minister died again. The people of the world are frustrated and seem to have no sustenance.
Although the emperor was very wise, it was God's will that made him so.
However, he was still young and was in mourning. He was so long that he could not care about state affairs.
His Majesty's virtues are in line with women's conduct, he is benevolent, wise and kind. When the country is in trouble, he personally handles government affairs when he comes to court.
The reputation of Guangda National Destiny was deeply rooted in the hearts of the people in the past, and people spread false accusations and praises to all directions.
Even if Xin revitalized the Yin and Shang Dynasties, and pregnant women revitalized the Zhou Dynasty, they are not enough metaphors. Therefore, they can be unified, people and ghosts are united, looking forward to the recovery of the national destiny, and thinking about the emperor and empress.
Complying with the principles of heaven and man is what the "Book of Changes" advocates. Peace and stability of the country is an important task for adults.
May your Majesty manage state affairs and adjust political principles, so as to comfort the ancestors and appease the people.
We cannot express our sincere concern for our country.
The Queen Mother issued an edict saying: The royal family is unfortunate and has constant difficulties.
After reading the memorial, I felt even more sad.
Ministers at home and abroad all believed that the emperor was too young and grieved to handle government affairs personally, so the orders should have a source.
If it can stabilize the country and benefit the world, what else is there to insist on? Just obey the minister's memorial respectfully.
However, if there are any ambiguities or omissions, I hope the ministers will try their best to help point them out.
So the Queen Mother once again came to the court to take charge.
After the emperor's crown ceremony, the Queen Mother sent a letter to Shao saying: The emperor's wedding ceremony and crown ceremony are complete, and he can live and work in peace and contentment far and near. He should face south and handle government affairs. The bright future begins with sending the emperor.
Now I return to political affairs, and everything will be in accordance with the old regulations.
So she was also called the Queen Mother of Chongde.
In the ninth year of Taiyuan, the Queen Mother passed away in Xianyang Palace at the age of sixty-one. She reigned for a total of forty years.
The Queen Mother was the emperor's cousin-in-law, and the court had doubts when discussing the funeral system.
Xu Zao, a doctor of Taixue, said: The degree of respect for serving one's father and for the king is the same.
Moreover, the "Etiquette" says that when the husband is ranked in the father's generation during the funeral, the wife should be treated as the mother's generation, so the husband should be treated as the king, and the wife should also be treated as the queen.
To serve the Queen Mother is to treat her like a mother.
The gentleman of Lu ridiculed the reverse order of sacrifices in order to clarify the superiority and inferiority.
Nowadays, the emperor offers sacrifices to Emperor Kang, Emperor Mu, Emperor Ai and Queen Jing, and the tribute is like the relationship between monarch and minister. How can he be as respectful as he is to the monarch, and the system of mourning clothes has been abolished because of the relationship between relatives.
I think it should be served for one year.
Heeded his advice.
Empress Mu Zhanghe named Fa Ni and sneaked into Lujiang. Father He Zhun's deeds can be found in "The Biography of Wife's Relatives".
He should be chosen to enter the palace if he comes from a famous family.
In August of the first year of Shengping, the emperor wrote a letter saying: The emperor consulted He Qi, the former Taiwei who joined the army: When the heaven and earth were formed, the relationship between people began to be formulated, so couples were created to worship the heaven and earth ancestral temple.
After discussing with the ministers, they all agreed that the old regulations should be followed.
Now we send envoys Zhijie Taichang Biaozhi and Zongzheng Sima Zong to accept them with gifts.
He Qi replied: The former Taiwei joined the army, and He Qi, the junior minister of the Duxiang Marquis, performed the rite of inspection and kowtowed before bowing.
The emperor issued a beautiful order to search for marriage in my family and prepared several people for selection.
My cousin's younger brother was the daughter-in-law of the late Sanqi Minister He Zhun. She was constantly tutored and dressed like a normal person.
Respectfully and solemnly flatter the old rules and regulations.
He also sent Sima Xi, who was also the Taibao and King of Wuling, and Sima Qia, who was also the Taiwei and the leader of the army, to bring a book and legislate Ni as the queen.
The queen has no sons.
Emperor Ai ascended the throne and was called Queen Mu, living in Yong'an Palace.
Huan Xuan usurped the throne and moved the queen to Situ's mansion.
Passing by the Imperial Ancestral Temple, the Queen stopped the car and burst into tears, which moved passers-by with her sadness.
When Huan Xuan heard about it, he became angry and said: "It is common for the world to give up and replace people. What does it have to do with a woman named Bao!"
So the queen was demoted to Lingling and titled day. He and Baotong traveled west together and arrived at Danyi.
After setting up a flag of justice, Yin Zhongwen served the queen and returned to Kyoto. The queen ordered: "Wars are frequent and the people are suffering and hungry."
How can we be frugal and frugal with the people when our meals, trains, and clothes are abundant and wasteful?
Reduce supply and don't play around with the situation.
The queen returned to Beijing from a distant place and planned to visit the mausoleum.
The officials concerned requested to cancel the memorial because the enemy bandits have not yet calmed down.
He died in the third year of Yuanxing at the age of sixty-six and reigned for forty-eight years.
Queen Aijing's name was Kuizhi, and she was willing to buy a house on her left. The daughter of Situ Zuo Changshi Wang Sui.
The Queen was originally the concubine of King Fallen Mo.
Saitong ascended the throne, made her queen, and posthumously gave her mother Aidan the title of Saiken Winged Star.
The queen reigned for three years and had no sons.
Xingkong died in the second year of his life.
The deposed Emperor Xiaoyu and Empress Xiaoyu were famous for their reputation, and their titles fell into confusion. My father is in a hurry, and this book has been passed down.
At first she was the concubine of King Sehai.
The deposed emperor ascended the throne and made her queen.
He died in the sixth year of Taihe and was buried in Jingping Mausoleum.
After the emperor was deposed as the Duke of Haixi, he demoted her to the title of Mrs. Haixi.
In the fifty-first year of Tai Dynasty, Duke Dangyou died in Cheng, and the queen and Duke Guyou were buried together in Wuling.
The brief text states that the Empress Dowager Zheng's name was Achun, and she was from Xingyang, Henan. It has been a wealthy family in the past dynasties.
Grandfather Yinhe was born in Linji Order.
His father, Zheng Kai, whose courtesy name was Zuyuan, was the prefect of Anfeng.
The queen was orphaned when she was young. She had no brothers and only four sisters. The queen was the eldest.
She first married the Tian family in Bohai, became a widow after giving birth to a boy, and went to live with her uncle Wu's family in Puyang.
When Emperor Yuan was the prime minister, he wanted to marry Wu's daughter as his wife after he passed away first.
The queen and Wu's daughter were visiting the back garden together. Someone saw it and said to the emperor: Although the daughter who returned from the tomb is a widow, she is much more virtuous than Chengdan's daughter.
In the first year of Jianwu, he married the wife of King Langxie and was very favored.
Although the queen is noble and favored, she often looks worried.
The emperor asked her why and replied: I have younger sisters, the middle one is married to Wang Bao of Changsha, and I have two younger sisters who are still unmarried. I am afraid that my elder sisters will become concubines and there will be no more suitors.
The emperor then calmly said to Liu Wei: "Zheng's two sisters, you can find good spouses for them so that they will not lose their former prominence."
Liu Wei recommended his nephew Liu Mai to marry his second sister, and the youngest to marry the Li family in Hanzhong. They all went to the family of aristocratic families.
The emperor summoned Wang Bao as minister to please the queen.
The queen gave birth to King Langye Mou, Emperor Jianwen, and Princess Xunyang.
King Langxie proclaimed himself emperor, and although the queen was his wife, the emperor ordered the prince, King Shuhai and King Wuling to serve her as a mother.
After the emperor died, the queen was called Mrs. Jianpingguo.
In the first year of Xianhe, the queen passed away. Emperor Jianwen was the king of Langxie at that time and was mourned.
Relevant officials believed that King Langxie had passed away, and the funeral ceremony for his biological mother should be downgraded. The ministers could not correct the situation, so they petitioned to remove the Prime Minister Zhuge Yi.
King Langye Shangshu said: My deceased mother was in my country when she was alive and left the country's mansion when she died. Although I became a successor, there is no reason to mourn and surrender, so that the love between mother and son can be expressed.
In the past, when Empress Jing passed away, Prince Xiao had already passed away, so she still had to mourn.
This is a clear precedent that I should follow.
Queen Mingmu did not force him to change his mind, so she appointed King Langxie as King of Kuaiji and posthumously named the Queen as Princess of Kuaiji.
Emperor Jian Wen ascended the throne and would have time to add titles in the future.
When he was about to die, he named the prince Daozi the king of Langxie, led the country of Kuaiji, and offered sacrifices to the concubine.
In the 19th year of Taiyuan, Emperor Xiaowu issued an edict saying: Concubine Kuaiji is the mother of virtue and virtue, with a harmonious sound of virtue, full of sage wisdom, and illumination of the Jin Dynasty.
The late emperor gave the wise and kind-hearted concubine Kuaiji an additional honorary title. The court's opinions were inconsistent, and the Tao was suspected of being distorted.
I stated that I would follow the late Emperor's ambition and always warned him in my heart.
Today, in accordance with the "Spring and Autumn Annals", the Han Dynasty and the past practices of Emperor Xiaohuai, the concubine is given the title of Empress Dowager Jian Wenxuan.
So a temple was built on the west side of Taimiao Road, and the mausoleum was called Jiaping.
At that time, in order to cater to the emperor's will, the officials believed that Empress Dowager Zheng should be sacrificed to Emperor Yuan.
The emperor asked Xu Miao about this, and Xu Miao said: I think the meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is that a mother becomes noble because of her son.
Duke Yin of Lu respected Duke Huan's mother and built a separate palace for Zhongzi instead of sharing it with Hui Temple.
Moreover, in the past, Empress Dowager Zheng was not the wife of the late emperor, so how could the descendants establish a first wife for their ancestors?
Respect has reached the extreme. Because of the ministers, she can be called the Queen Mother, and the ceremony of the mausoleum and temple is complete.
If they are buried together and sacrificed, it is not allowed by the righteousness and etiquette.
Complied with him.
Queen Jian Wenshun's name is Jian Ji, a native of Jinyang, Taiyuan. His father Wang Xia's deeds can be found in "Biography of Foreign Relatives".
Because the queen came from a distinguished family, she was originally the princess of Kuaiji. She gave birth to a son, Daosheng, who was established as the prince.
In the fourth year of Yonghe, both mother and son lost the emperor's favor and were both imprisoned and deposed. The queen died of depression.
In the second year of Xian'an, Emperor Xiaowu ascended the throne and was given the additional honorary title of Queen Shun. They were buried together in Gaoping Mausoleum. They were posthumously presented to the Queen's father Wang Xia Tejin and Dr. Guanglu, and were granted the title of Sanqi Changshi.
Empress Dowager Li Xiaowuwen was named Lingrong and came from a humble background.
At first Emperor Jian Wen was the king of Kuaiji and had three sons, all of whom died in infancy.
Since Daosheng was deposed and King Xian died prematurely, all the concubines have not been pregnant for nearly ten years.
The emperor ordered the soothsayer Hu Qian to divine for this purpose. Hu Qian said: There is a woman in the back room who will be able to give birth to two rich boys, one of whom will eventually prosper and advance to the imperial family.
At that time, Xu Guisheng gave birth to Princess Xin'an, who was favored because of her good virtues.
The emperor often hoped that she would become pregnant, but she remained childless. It happened that there was a Taoist priest named Xu Mai. The ministers of the court and celebrities at that time said that he had attained Taoism.
The emperor asked him calmly and replied: I am a person who likes mountains and rivers. I have no Taoism. How can I judge such a thing!
However, His Highness's great virtue and good fortune should lead to the prosperity of his children. He should listen to Hu Qian's words and broaden the way to pass on the family line.
The emperor thought he was right and adopted more concubines.
After a few years, he had no son, so he ordered a person who was good at fortune-telling to summon all his concubines to show him. If none of them were chosen, he summoned all the maids and concubines to show him.
At that time, the queen was a palace servant. She was tall and dark-faced in the textile workshop, and the palace maids called her "Kunlun".
After being summoned, the physiognomist said in surprise: This is the person.
The emperor summoned her to serve him while he slept.
The queen dreamed several times of two dragons resting on her knees and the sun and moon falling into her arms. She thought it was auspicious and told the story to similar people. The emperor was surprised when he heard about it. After that, he gave birth to Emperor Xiaowu, King Wenxiao of Kuaiji, and the eldest princess of Poyang.
Emperor Xiaowu had just ascended the throne and respected her as Concubine Shu.
In the third year of Taiyuan, he was promoted to a nobleman. In the ninth year, she was promoted to wife.
In the twelfth year, she became the imperial concubine, and the ceremonial dress was exactly the same as that of the empress dowager.
In the 19th year, King Daozi of Kuaiji declared: "Mothers value their sons, and they are rich in blessings and gifts."
I believe that the virtue of the Crown Princess shines everywhere, and the blessing of her virtue has been gathered for a long time. She has begun to have good fortune in the holy light, and has inherited the sound of virtue from her ancestors.
Although subtle or prominent are based on the same consideration, the title is not respectful to the extreme and cannot express respect for the Sacred Heart. Unable to answer the gods.
The name should be corrected and the details should be in accordance with the old regulations.
In the eighth month of Xinsi, the emperor came to the palace and sent Liu Danzun, the concubine and Taibao, as the empress dowager and called Chongxun Palace.
Emperor An ascended the throne and honored her as the Empress Dowager.
In the fourth year of Long'an, he died in Hanzhang Hall.
Discussions in the imperial court had doubts about the system of mourning clothes. He Cheng from Zuo Pushe, Wang Ya from You Pushe, Shangshu Cheyin, Kong Anguo, and Xuguang from the Ancestral Department said: The title of the Empress Dowager is appropriate, the system is like that of an emperor, the etiquette is complete, and the emotions are upheld.
The principle of "Spring and Autumn" is that mother is more valuable than her son. Since she is called a lady, mourning clothes should be orthodox.
Chengfeng was so famous as his wife that Duke Wen spent three years in mourning for her.
Children have a deep affection for their parents' birth, body, and dignity.
Moreover, honoring ancestors with courtesy does not disparage the grandchildren. Of course, we should increase the level of mourning clothes so as not to be aggrieved, and establish a system based on human circumstances.
If there is no explicit provision, and there are doubts, the mourning period should be severe. We think it should be the same as mourning for the grandmother, and the mourning period should be three years.
Complied with them.
The queen and all the officials all served for one year, and Queen Yong'an mourned together.
So a hut was set up in Youtang, a funeral was held in Kongzhumeng, he was buried in Xiuzuo, and the god was sacrificed in the Empress Dowager Xuan Temple.
Queen Xiaowuding's name was Fahui, and she was the niece of Queen Aijing. His father Wang Yun's deeds can be found in "The Biography of Foreign Relatives".
At the beginning, the emperor was about to get married and asked the ministers.
At that time, Wang Yun's son Wang Yu was twenty years old. When he met his servant Xie Zhi, Xie Xuan deeply respected him.
Later Xie An told people: In the past, Mao Jia was ridiculed in the Wei Dynasty, and Yang Jun almost overthrew the Jin Dynasty.
If the emperor wants to marry a wife, then if the queen has a father, she must be as famous as Wang Yun.
Later, he visited Wang Yun's daughter. She was beautiful in appearance and moral character, so she was recommended for election.
In the third year of Ningkang, General Huan Chong and other generals of the Chinese army reported: I have heard that the way of heaven and earth is in harmony; the virtues of the emperor and the empress must be harmonious and prosperous.
Then it can create all things, the order of heaven, earth and human beings will be clear, the spiritual roots will be strong for a long time, and the branches will multiply for hundreds of generations.
Heaven and man are the same, this is the case.
Therefore, when Yu married a wife in Tushan, the Xia Qu would be bright; if a maggot was married to a Dan family, the surname would be frank and the fortune would be prosperous.
Now that a queen will be established, she should choose it at the right time.
We heard that the daughter of Wang Yun, the prefect of Jinling, was gentle and obedient by nature, and had the four skills of "Poetry", "Book", "Li" and "Music".
Moreover, as a descendant of a virtuous family, he accumulated virtues and good deeds early.
Those of us who consult and discuss can be worthy of the emperor, respectfully flatter the ancestral temple, spread the word of virtue in the Sixth Palace, and be an example of mothers in the world.
So the emperor married her.
Wang Yun's wife Liu was granted the title of Lord of Leping Township.
The queen was fond of drinking and was proud and jealous by nature. The emperor was deeply worried.
So he summoned Wang Yun in the East Hall, told the queen's faults one by one, and asked him to admonish him.
Wang Yun took off his hat and apologized.
The queen then corrected herself slightly.
He died in Zuo 55, at the age of 21, and was buried in Longping Mausoleum.
Empress Dowager Ande Chen was given the title of daughter, and her name was Songzi Xunyang.
His father, Chen Guang, won an official position by virtue of his skills and became the prefect of Pingchang.
Because of her beauty and good singing and playing the piano, the queen entered the palace and became Shuyuan, and gave birth to two emperors, An and Gong.
The Lord passed away in the fifty-fifth year and gave his wife the title.
She was added as the empress dowager, and she was sacrificed at the Xuansanhou Temple, and the mausoleum was called Xiping.
Queen Anxi was named Shen Ai, and she was from Linyi, Langxie.
His father was dedicated to the Lord, and his deeds are said to be different; his mother was Princess Xin'anmin.
The queen was married as the crown princess in the year 521 AD.
Saitong ascended the throne and was made queen. No son.
Zhanyan died in Aoxuan Hall in the eighth year of his reign at the age of twenty-nine and was buried in Tililu.
Queen Gongsi Chu was named Lingyuan, a native of Yangzhai, Henan, and the daughter of Chu Shuang, the prefect of Yixing.
The queen was originally Princess Langxie.
In the first year of Yuanxi, she was made queen and gave birth to Princess Haiyan and Princess Fuyang.
When the emperor abdicated the throne to Sai, she was demoted to Princess Lingling.
Song Yuanjia died in the 13th year of his reign at the age of fifty-three. He was buried in Chongping Mausoleum.
Shi Chen said: The queen's body is in good health, and she matches the emperor and is virtuous; the moon follows the sun's shadow, and matches the sun and shines together.
Therefore, it can be seen that yang is hot and yin is cold, and all things are created by yin and yang; fire is hot and water is moist, and the six qi are regulated by water and fire.
It is used to describe a good wife and lady, matching the emperor's virtues. This is really helpful for the solid foundation of the royal family.
Empress Xuanmu knew etiquette and was a good matchmaker. She assisted the emperor to start a business with great difficulty, inherited the virtue passed down from Tushan, and passed down good luck to future generations. This was all due to the help of a motherly person.
The Yang family of Wuyuan interfered in the government affairs, was short-sighted, doted on the eldest son for personal gain, and completely eliminated Wei Cui's remarks. He was unaware of Zhang Hong's treachery and ominous aura, which obscured the emperor's sage. This was the beginning of the decline of Jin's power in the middle.
Emperor Hui was honest and dull by nature, so stupid that he asked whether the frogs croaking for official purposes or for private purposes.
The south wind is unbridled and cunning, stirring up disasters all over the sky.
As soon as she stepped into the concubine's palace, she began to display her ambition to be the queen mother; when she saw that she was in power, she was given poison to commit suicide. Empress Bao's destruction of the Zhou Dynasty is not an adequate metaphor; my sister's concubine's overthrow of the Xia Dynasty is not an adequate metaphor either.
The Central Plains was plunged into war, and the signs were obvious from then on.
In the past, Emperor Gaozong was in mourning and left the affairs of state to the elders; King Cheng was young and ignorant, so he entrusted state affairs to his superiors.
It is indeed not an ancient system for the Queen Mother to listen to government affairs in court.
Empresses Mingmu and Kangxian came to the court successively. The emperor was young at that time, so he took charge as regent personally.
They all fell into the blood sacrifice of Huayang and rushed to follow He Xi's footsteps to prevent the declining national destiny from being ruined by their own hands. There are many people who are lucky.
Praise says: Two concubines promoted Shun's career, and three mothers supported the Zhou Dynasty.
Mo Xi was favored and Xia Jie was overthrown, while Bao Si proudly destroyed the Western Zhou Dynasty.
The rise and fall of a country is mainly due to this.
Empress Mu Shen Yi was decisive and could cook without showing a trace after killing people and silencing them.
The old wife fell out of favor, and the pond willows lamented for her.
The Empress Dowager of Chonghua Palace was blessed and was the starting point of troubles in later generations.
The two empresses Yang were favored one after another, which brought great blessings but also misfortunes.
Queen Nanfeng was cruel and tyrannical, and her country was destroyed and she died.
Queen Xianrong was favored by the rebellious ministers, and she thought it was honor to suffer humiliation.
He deposed the monarch when he picked up the pen, and bullied the emperor with the book of Shao.
Separation leads to misfortune, deep sorrow leads to death.
Fen is slim and graceful, and Fang is gentle and submissive.
The concubine of the Lu family gave birth to a son, who created the Qin Shihuang family, and the Yellow Emperor's concubine gave birth to a son, the Mi family, the ancestor of Chu.
Records have been passed down for a long time. The five elements of Jin belong to gold, and Jin De left quietly.
A woman's virtue is impressive and her influence exceeds that of princes.
