◎Clan Anping Xian Wang Fu Pengcheng Mu Wang Quan Gaoden Documents Wang Tai Jinan King Hui Sui Qiao Gang Wang Xun
Anping Xianwang Sima Fu, courtesy name Shuda, was the second brother of Emperor Xuan.
At the beginning, Sima Fu's eldest brother Sima Lang was known as Boda, Emperor Xuan was known as Zhongda, Sima Fu's younger brother Sima Kui was known as Jida, Sima Xun was known as Xianda, Sima Jin was known as Huida, Sima Tong was known as Yada, and Sima Min was known as Youda. They were all famous, so they were known as Bada at that time.
Sima Fu was gentle, honest, upright and modest, and read widely classic historical books.
In the last years of the Han Dynasty, there was death and turmoil, and he and his brothers were in danger. They had only a simple diet, but read tirelessly.
He has an open-minded and tolerant personality, takes chastity and innocence as the foundation of his life, and has never had any grudges with others.
Yin Wu, a native of Chenliu, was well-known in the country and had been punished. Sima Fu went to visit him, so he ate and lived with him. People who talked about it praised him.
Cao Zhi, the king of Chensi in Wei Dynasty, had superhuman talents. He selected his officials and appointed Sima Fu as literary director.
Cao Zhi relied on his talent to dominate others, and Sima Fu often gave sincere advice. At first, he did not agree with Cao Zhi, but later he admitted his mistakes.
He was moved to the position of concubine among the crown princes.
When Emperor Wu of Wei passed away, the prince cried too much. Sima Fu advised him: "The emperor has passed away, and the world relies on you, Your Highness, to issue orders."
It should be for the ancestral temple at the top and for the various feudal states at the bottom. Why should we imitate the filial piety of the common people!
It took the prince a while to stop crying and said: You are right.
At that time, the ministers had just heard that the emperor had died, and they gathered together to weep and no longer formed a procession.
Sima Fu said sternly at the court: Now that the emperor has passed away and the world is in shock, we should pay homage to the successor as soon as possible and come to control the country. Is it enough to just cry?
Sima Fu made peace with the minister, dismissed the ministers, set up imperial guards, completed the funeral, and supported the crown prince to ascend the throne, that is, Emperor Wen.
At that time, the selection of officials such as servants and permanent servants was being carried out. From time to time, the old people around the prince hinted that the people in charge planned to appoint themselves and not recruit anyone else.
Sima Fu said: Although there were Yao and Shun, Ji Qi was still indispensable.
Now that the new king has just ascended the throne, he should recruit the talents and wise men at home. If he is still afraid of not getting them, how can he take advantage of the opportunity to recommend them to his ministers? Being an official is incompetent, and getting an official position is not enough to be respected.
So another recommendation was made.
He was transferred to Sima Fu as Zhongshulang and Changshishi, and he stayed in the official office. He was also appointed as Huangmen Shilang and Cavalry Captain.
At that time, Sun Quan claimed to be a vassal of Wei and asked for hostages to be sent to Wei. Wei's former general Yu Jin should be sent back to Wei, but it took a long time for them to arrive.
The emperor asked Sima Fu about this, and Sima Fu said: The former king set up the system of nine services because he sincerely used his benevolence to request remote areas, instead of using the etiquette of the Central Plains to demand requests.
Your Majesty inherits the throne, and people from far away obey and pay tribute.
Although Sun Quan did not send any hostages and Yu Jin did not come back, they should still be treated leniently. Accumulate soldiers and horses and observe changes in the situation.
You can't blame someone just because of suspicion, as that might hurt the righteousness of people far away.
From Sun Ce to Sun Quan, successive generations have succeeded each other, and the strength of the people is not due to one Yu Jin. There must be other reasons why the ban did not arrive.
Later Yu Jin returned to Wei. Sure enough, he was detained because of illness, but the hostages were never delivered.
The army marched to the river and blamed Wu for breaking his promise, so Wu broke off relations and stopped contributing.
After that, he served as a dianong in Hanoi, was given the title of Marquis of Guannei, and was transferred to the prefect of Qinghe.
At the beginning, Emperor Wen of Wei established Duzhi Shangshu, who was specifically in charge of the military and state's expenditure plan. The court's discussion believed that the conquests had not subsided, and measures must be economized.
When Emperor Ming succeeded to the throne and planned to appoint Sima Fu, he asked those around him: "Does he have the demeanor of his elder brother?"
He replied: Like his brother.
The emperor said: I have got two Sima Yis, so what else do I have to worry about?
Sima Fu was transferred to Duzhi Shangshu.
Sima Fu believed that to capture the enemy and win, one should be prepared.
Every time Zhuge Liang invaded Guanzhong, the troops at the border could not stop the enemy, and the rear troops rushed to the border and would not be able to catch up with the fighters. Twenty thousand infantry and cavalry should be selected in advance and divided into two parts as a reserve force to attack the enemy.
Sima Fu also believed that Guanzhong suffered continuous enemy attacks and there was insufficient grain and cloth, so he sent 5,000 farmers from Jizhou to station in Shangying to practice battle formations in autumn and winter, and to manage fields and mulberry gardens in spring and summer.
From then on, the Guanzhong army and the country had a surplus and were prepared to prevent invasion.
After that, he was appointed as Shangshu Youpu She, was granted the title of Marquis of Changping Ting, and was moved to Shangshu Ling.
When General Cao Shuang took over power and Li Sheng, He Yan, Deng Yang and others made political chaos, Sima Fu did not care about daily political affairs, but just rectified himself and stayed away from harm.
When Emperor Xuan executed Cao Shuang, Sima Fu and Emperor Jing were stationed at Simamen. Because of their meritorious service, they were granted the title of Marquis of Changshe County and were appointed as ministers.
At that time, Wu general Zhuge Ke surrounded the new city and appointed Sima Fu to command 200,000 troops to defend the enemy.
Sima Fu was stationed in Shouchun and sent his mother Qiu Jian, Wen Qin and others to attack.
The generals wanted to attack quickly, but Sima Fu said: To attack, you must rely on the opponent's strength to succeed, and you must be cunning and ingenious, without being able to fight.
Deliberately staying for more than a month before advancing, the Wu army fled.
When Wei Ming passed away after mourning, they discussed how to write the flags in front of the coffin. Some people planned to remove the surname and write Wei, while others planned to write both the surname and Wei. Sima Fu believed: According to classical justice, neither should be written.
All emperors named the world based on the name of their own country, so as to distinguish themselves from previous generations, not to choose a good name to glorify themselves.
The sky is called Huangtian, and the emperor is called the emperor; the earth is called the queen earth, and the queen is called the queen.
Creation is the same as the name of heaven and earth. There is no second noble name in the world. There is no need to use the name of the country to express yourself, and there is no need to use the name of the clan to show off.
Therefore, the "Jing" in the third year of Yin Gong's "Spring and Autumn" says that in the third month of the third month, King Gengxu died. He respected him and called him Heaven, not King of Zhou, in order to distinguish him from the kings of other countries. In August Gengchen, Song Gonghe died. He wrote the name of the country and the person in order to distinguish him from the king of heaven.
The "Jing" written in the fifteenth year of Duke Xiang said that Liu Xia welcomed the queen in Qi, not to mention the queen Jiang of Zhou, in order to distinguish herself from the ladies of other countries.
As for the countries, it is said that Mrs. Jiang came from Qi, and it is also said that Ji Boji passed away. The name of the country is used to refer to the surname, in order to distinguish it from the Queen of Heaven.
From this research, it can be seen that the title of emperor is unparalleled, so why is it necessary to write Wei?
When we honor the queen and use the title "Mi" to make it clear, why is it necessary to write down the surname?
Those who wanted to write "Wei" among the commentators thought they showed the dignity of the emperor, but in fact they were equal to the kings of ancient countries.
People who wanted to write their last names thought they were showing that they were the emperor's concubines, but they were actually the same as ancient ladies.
It violates the principles of the classics and is different from the clear system of the saints. It cannot leave a lasting lesson for the future and cannot become an unchanging formula for all ages.
So he followed Sima Fu's argument.
Moved to Sikong.
He was appointed Taiwei instead of Wang Jun.
When Shu general Jiang Wei invaded Longyou, Wang Jing, the governor of Yongzhou, was defeated and sent Sima Fu to the west to guard Guanzhong and command the troops.
Chen Tai, general of the expedition to the west, and Deng Ai, general of Anxi, marched to attack Jiang Wei, but Jiang Wei withdrew.
Sima Fu returned to the capital and was transferred to Taifu.
When Lord Gao Gui was killed, no one from the officials dared to express condolences. Sima Fu lay on the body and cried very sadly, saying: "It is my crime to kill your majesty."
Invite the person who investigated the mastermind.
When the Queen Mother ordered him to be buried with common people's rites, Sima Fu and the Dukes went to court and requested that he be buried with royal rites, and they complied.
Sima Fu is very cautious by nature.
When Emperor Xuan was in power, Sima Fu often gave in and remained humble.
Later, during the period when the monarch was abolished and established, he did not participate in the planning.
The emperors of Jing and Wen dynasties did not dare to force Sima Fu because of his high status.
Later he was granted the title of Duke of Changle.
When Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and King Chenliu went to Jinyong City, Sima Fu said goodbye to him, holding the king's hand, sighing with tears, unable to control his emotions.
Said: Until the day I die, I must become a loyal minister of Wei.
The edict said: I admire the Grand Tutor's great merits and virtues, and use them to carry forward his great teachings and calm the world. I am willing to give him the gift that does not require me to be a minister.
He was made King of Anping and granted a fief of 40,000 households.
He was promoted to Dazai, Chijie, and Commander-in-Chief to oversee the Chinese and foreign military affairs.
The officials reported that none of the kings had gone to the kingdoms they had enfeoffed, and the auxiliary officials in the government offices they had set up were not yet complete.
Because Sima Fu had perfect virtue and a noble status, the emperor should promote and establish enlightenment and set an example for the kings, so he appointed assistants in the government office for him.
And because Sima Fu had relatives inside and friends outside, he was not rich in spending money to provide benefits to the people below, so he gave two thousand pieces of silk as a gift.
When the emperor met with his ministers on New Year's Day, he ordered Sima Fu to ride on a trolley to the hall, and the emperor greeted him on the steps in front of the hall.
After sitting down, the emperor personally served a wine glass to celebrate his birthday, as was the etiquette in the family.
Every time the emperor paid homage, Sima Fu would kneel down to stop him.
He also gave Sima Fu a mica chariot and a green-covered chariot.
Although Sima Fu was respected and favored, he was not proud of it and often looked sad.
Before his death, he sent an order saying: Sima Fu of Wen County, Hanoi, whose name was Shuda, was an unwavering person in the Wei Dynasty. He was different from Yi Yin and Zhou Gong, and different from Boyi and Liu Xiahui. He stood up and followed the path consistently. An unpainted coffin and a single-layer coffin should be used, and the body should be buried in the clothes you normally wear.
He died in the eighth year of Taishi's reign at the age of ninety-three.
The emperor mourned for three days in Taichui Saitang.
The edict said: The king's merits and morals are beyond the world, and his honor and favor are unparalleled. I hope that he will maintain his official position and be my support.
I wish him a long life, consult and admire his teachings, and I am deeply saddened by his sudden death.
Use Dongyuan Wenming's secret weapon, a set of court clothes, a set of clothes, a hundred pieces of silk, five hundred pieces of silk each, one million coins, and one thousand dendrobium of grain to provide for the funeral.
The implementation of all kinds of things is based on the precedent of Yuanqu Shuping Xian Wang Xingdong.
Sima Fu's family followed Sima Fu's last words and used none of the utensils they were given.
The emperor went to the mourning hall twice to say goodbye in person and expressed his sorrow.
After the burial, he went to the capital pavilion and paid homage to the coffin. Everyone was moved by sadness.
He was given a chariot, a hundred soldiers and warriors, and more than two thousand people who guided him about good and bad events. They preached and offered sacrifices to the Ancestral Temple.
Dan Mafu had nine sons: Sima Yong, Sima Wang, Sima Fu, Sima Yi, Sima Huang, Sima Quan, Sima Gui, Sima Heng, and Sima Jing.
Sima Yong's courtesy name is Zikui.
When he first became the heir to the throne, he was appointed as an infantry captain and a lieutenant.
He died before Sima Fu, and was given a posthumous gift to the general of the auxiliary state, with the nickname Zhen.
Sima Yong's son Sima Chong was a grandson and died early.
In the ninth year of Taishi, Sima Long, the younger brother of Sima Chong, was made King of Anping.
Four years later, he died in the second year of Xianning. His nickname was Mu. Without a son, the feudal state was cut off.
Sima Wang, the king of Yiyang, whose courtesy name was Zichu, was adopted by his uncle Sima Lang. He was generous and like his father.
He served as a senior planner in the county. He was recommended as Xiaolian and appointed as Situ Tu. He successively served as the prefect of Pingyang and the general of Luoyang Diannong.
He followed Emperor Xuan to attack Wang Bo and was named Yong'an Tinghou for his meritorious service.
He was moved to the position of general of the army guard, changed to the title of Marquis of Anle Township, and was appointed as the regular servant of Sanqi.
At that time, the Duke of Wei Gaogui was a man of talents and loved scholars. Sima Wang, Pei Xiu, Wang Chen, and Zhong Hui were all treated very well and served at banquets many times.
The Duke is impatient. Pei Xiu and others are serving in the palace and will be there immediately if there is an emergency call.
Because Sima Wang was in a foreign position, he was specially given a chariot with five warriors.
At that time, Emperor Jing and Emperor Wen successively assisted in the affairs of the court without meeting the court, and the power belonged to the Jin Dynasty.
Although Sima Wang was favored, he often felt uneasy, so he asked to leave the capital and be appointed as the general of Zhengxi, Chijie, and the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Yongliang and Liangzhou.
During his eight years in office, he was dignified, educated, and purified.
In the past, Shu general Jiang Wei invaded Guanzhong many times. When Sima Wang took office, he made extensive plans. Jiang Wei was unable to invade, and Guanzhong relied on him.
He was granted the title of Marquis of Shunyang.
He was appointed as General of the Guard, concurrently as the leader of the Central Army, and in charge of the forbidden troops.
Soon he was promoted to General of Hussars and opened a government office.
Soon, he replaced He Zeng as Situ.
Emperor Wu accepted the concession and granted Sima Wang the title of King of Yiyang, with a fief of 10,000 households and 2,000 soldiers.
In the third year of his reign, the edict stated: Advocate the virtuous and appoint meritorious officials, respect the prosperous relatives of the clan, use this to govern the country, promote education, and set an example for all officials to see.
Besides, the importance of Taisi lies in the Heavenly Officials. Therefore, the Zhou Dynasty established six official positions: government, punishment, affairs, governance, education, and etiquette. The regulations for governing the country were the most important.
Situ, the leader of the army, Sima Wang, was a member of the imperial family because of his good virtues, and the world benefited from his virtues. His ancestors started a business, assisted the destiny, came out of the capital to take charge of important tasks, and entered the court to assist in court politics. He had both obvious literary virtues and provocative martial arts.
When I succeed to the throne, I will be a wise minister and should ascend to the position of Taiwei. I will also be in charge of military affairs, assist the royal family internally, and enhance the authority of the monarch externally. He was promoted to Taiwei, and the leader of the army remained the same.
There will be one Taiwei officer, six military officers, and five cavalry officers.
Ten more officers and cavalry were added, adding to the previous thirty people, false Yu Bao advocated.
Wu State general Shi Ji invaded Jiangxia, causing commotion on the border.
Sima Wang was appointed to command 20,000 infantry and cavalrymen of the Chinese army and stationed at Longpi, forming an important town on both sides. During the holidays, he was appointed as the governor to supervise all military affairs.
It happened that Hu Lie, the governor of Jingzhou, resisted Shi Ji and defeated the enemy army, so Sima Wang withdrew his troops and returned to the court.
Soon Ding Feng, the general of Wu State, invaded Shaopi. Sima Wang led his troops to the front line, but retreated before Ding Feng could reach him.
Become the Great Sima.
Sun Hao led his army to invade Shouchun. Shaoshu ordered Sima Wang to command 20,000 Chinese troops and 3,000 cavalry to occupy Huaibei.
Sun Hao retreated and the Jin army gave up.
In the seventh year of Taishi's reign, he passed away at the age of sixty-seven. The funeral gifts exceeded the usual rites. Sima Wang was frugal and stingy by nature and liked to accumulate money. After his death, he was full of gold and silk, so he was ridiculed.
He has four sons: Sima Yi, Sima Hong, Sima Zheng and Sima Pin.
Sima Yiguan went to Huangmenlang and died before Sima Wang.
Sima Zheng also died early.
Let Sima Yi's son Sima Qi inherit the title.
Sima Qi also liked to accumulate money without any limit. He sent three envoys to Jiaoguang to do business, which was reported by the relevant officials. In the ninth year of Taikang, Shaoshu demoted Sima Qi to the title of Sanzongtinghou.
Instead, King Zhangwu Sima Wei was appointed as Sima Wang's successor.
Later, Sima Wei was killed, and Sima Qi was appointed King Jiyang to succeed Sima Wang.
Sima Hong, the king of Ping in Hejian, whose courtesy name was Kongye, was adopted by his uncle, Sima Qian, the Marquis of Changwuting.
Serving as an official in Wei, he served successively as Dian Nong Zhonglang Jiang and Yuan Wu Taishou, and was granted the title of Xiang Bennan.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and made him King of Hejian.
Twelve years later, Xianning died in the second year of his life.
He has two sons: Sima Wei and Sima Hun.
Sima Wei inherited the title and was transferred to Zhang Wu.
Later, Sima Wei succeeded Sima Wang, King of Yiyang, and appointed Sima Hun as the successor of Sima Hong.
Sima Hun served as the regular attendant of Sanqi until his death.
When Luoyang fell, several of Sima Hun's sons were captured by the Hu people.
The youngest son Sima Tao had just succeeded Sima Que, the new king of Cai, and was also captured together with his elder brother.
Later, he was able to return to the south and had a falling out with Concubine Xincai.
In the second year of Taixing, he thought that since his brothers had been taken captive to Liaodong and Zhang Wu's feudal kingdom had been cut off, he should return to the place of his birth.
The concubine argued about this and left the matter to Taichang.
Taichang He Xun commented: Zhang Wu and Xincai both flattered a system in which feudal states should not be exterminated. According to morality, they could not abandon their own clans and become descendants of side relatives first.
Investigation: Sima Tao has been designated as someone else's heir. He must no longer have any brothers, and his country will never have any descendants, so that he can return to his birthplace.
Now my brother is far away. It cannot be said that he is not there. Although the road is blocked, it is not an extremely far place.
Besides, Xianbei was obedient and obedient, with constant messengers.
Naturally, an edict should be issued to Liaodong, following the precedents of Liu Qun, Lu Chen and others, forcing them to return and inherit the original feudal state.
I think it is inconvenient for Sima Tao to leave the place he inherited now.
Emperor Yuan Xia Shao said: Although Sima Tao is adopted, he has his own biological mother.
Concubine Xincai treated him very mercilessly, so Sima Tao insisted on doing so.
If you don't listen to him, there will always be disputes, which will be even worse.
Now I will follow his wishes and go back to inherit Zhang Wu.
Sima Tao successively served as a regular attendant of Sanqi. He passed away and was succeeded by his son Sima Xiu.
Sima Xiu and Sima Xiong, the king of Pengcheng, both defected to Su Jun.
Su Jun was put down and Sima Xiu died in the battle.
His younger brother Sima Zhen was only eight years old and was not convicted because he was a child.
In the sixth year of Xianhe, he inherited the title and reached Dazongzheng.
Died without descendants. Sima Qin, the king of Hejian, made his son Sima Fanzhi his heir, rising to the rank of guerrilla general.
After his death, he was succeeded by his son Sima Xiu.
In the first year of Yixi, he served as the prefect of Guiyang.
Sima Xiu's wife was Huan Zhen's sister. Huan Zhen was rebellious. Sima Xiu himself was uneasy, rebelled, was killed, and the feudal state was abolished.
Sima Weiyu Jingyao was originally succeeded by Sima Hong.
In the third year of Xianning, he was granted the title of Zhangwu.
In the ninth year of Taikang, he succeeded Sima Wang, King of Yiyang.
Sima Wei was a man of cruelty and bad character, and he flattered and relied on Sima Lun, the king of Zhao.
In the last years of Yuankang, he was appointed as a regular attendant of Sanqi. Sima Lun was about to usurp the throne and sent Sima Wei and Huangmenlang Luo Xiu to force the emperor to fight for the seal ribbon. Sima Lun appointed Sima Wei as Zhongshu Ling.
When Sima Lun failed, Emperor Hui resumed his throne and said: "Api twists my finger and seizes my seal ribbon. I have to kill him."
Huitan is Si Wuyao’s nickname. So he killed Si Yasheng.
Following the death of King Mu Sima Zheng, his elder brother Sima Yi died, and Sima Zheng was made the heir apparent.
He served successively as Nan Zhonglang General and was named Qi Xingbao. He died before his father Sima Wang and was posthumously awarded the title of Champion General.
Emperor Wu posthumously named him the King of Sui County from a county in Yiyang State.
His son Xingmai succeeded him.
In the ninth year of Taikang, he was promoted to Suijun King with Ping Lin of Yiyang.
King Sima of Jingling, whose spelling is Kong Wei, was initially granted the title of Marquis of Lelingting. When he first became an official, he was appointed as the Minister of Military Affairs of the State.
Emperor Wu accepted the concession and made him King Shuping, granting him 3,097 households.
He entered Beijing and became a regular attendant and minister of Sanqi.
Sima Qiao was good at flattery and wanted to serve Yang Jun.
When Yang Jun was executed, he should be sentenced to death according to law. Ma Yao of Shu'an Company had a good relationship with Sima Pin, so he was not convicted.
Soon he was moved to Dahonglu and served as a minister.
Sima Yao wanted to dominate the government and was at odds with Sima Liang, the king of Runan.
Sima Liang dismissed Sima Yao, Sima Pin and others from their official positions on the grounds that Sima Yao was not resolute in his crusade against Yang Jun, and sent Sima Suan to the feudal country.
Sima Suan then managed goods, and his luxury exceeded the system.
King Zhao Sima Lun usurped the throne and recalled Sima Cun.
When the rebels rose up, Sima Lun appointed Sima Pin as general of the guard and commander of all military affairs.
Sima Lun failed and Sima Cun was dismissed from office.
Sima Tong, King of Qi, assisted in the government affairs, and Sima Yao was appointed as a servant. Sima Liu was elected as General Pingdong and Commander-in-Chief of Xuzhou's military forces to guard Xiapi.
Sima Ying, king of Chengdu, assisted in government affairs and promoted Sima Pin to General Wei.
When Emperor Hui was on his way to the north, he appointed Sima Suan as the general of chariots and cavalry. His duties as governor remained unchanged and he was sent to lead the army to Ye.
During the Battle of Dangyin, Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, ran to Xiapi, but Sima Cun refused to accept him, so Sima Yue returned to his own kingdom.
After the emperor visited the west, Sima Yue gathered troops to prepare to meet the emperor. Sima Cun was very frightened.
Wang Xiu, the chief historian, said: "The king of Donghai has an important position in the clan. Now he is about to perform a righteous deed. The Duke should grant Xuzhou to him. This is a beautiful thing of restraint and humility."
Sima Bang obeyed him, so he considered himself to be adhering to the emperor's will, commanding the governor of Yanzhou and the general of chariots and cavalry, and reported to the emperor.
The emperor was in Chang'an at that time and sent the envoy Liu Qian to confer the post.
Sima Pin was worried that Gou Xi, the governor of Yanzhou, would not give way to him, so he gave Liu Qian soldiers and asked him to kill Gou Xi in the name of the imperial edict.
Gou Xi had already resigned from the official position at that time. Sima Cheng continued to seek Gou Xi in the state, and the counties could not tolerate his orders.
King Sima Xu of Fanyang sent Ju Mai back to Kuiye and transferred Siwudeng to be the commander-in-chief of Zhiye's military affairs.
Si Xianshuang refused to accept the order and colluded with the governor of Suiye, Sui Kui, behind the backs of the Shandong princes.
Sima Yan sent general Tian Hui to attack Sima Liu and defeated Sima Qiao. Sima Pin ran back to his kingdom.
The emperor returned to Luoyang, and Sima Qiao went to the palace.
When Emperor Huai came to the throne, he changed the title of Sima Suan to King Jingling and appointed him as Doctor Guanglu.
Sima Yue became the shepherd of Yuzhou, leaving his eldest son Sima Si and his accomplice He Lun to visit the official offices in the palace.
Sima Liu persuaded the emperor to attack Sima Yue, so he gathered people to attack Sima Lun, but failed.
The emperor blamed Sima Qiao, but Sima Qiao escaped from the disaster by running away.
The more Sima died, the more Sima coffin came out.
When Luoyang fell, he was killed by the rebels.
Sima Fu became the king of Taiyuan, and at the end of the Wei Dynasty he was appointed as the governor of the wild king.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and named him King of Bohai, granting 5,379 households. In the second year of Taishi's reign, he went to enfeoff the country.
Later he served as Weiwei, Dongzhonglang General, and Nanzhonglang General. In the third year of Xianning, he was moved to the position of King of Taiyuan and supervised the military affairs of Bingzhou.
In the fourth year of Taikang's reign, he entered the court and passed away in the fifth year. He was given posthumously to General Zhenbei.
In the first year of Yongping, it was presented to General Wei and Kaifu Yitong.
His son, Sima Hong, was the heir. During the Yuankang period, he served as a regular servant of Sanqi. Later, he was given the title of Sima Yi, whose courtesy name was Zishi. He took up a prominent official position at a young age, reaching the rank of General of Lang of Wu Ben.
He died before accepting the abdication, and his brother Sima Yong's concubine Sima succeeded him and was named the king of Nangong County.
After his death, his son Sima You succeeded him, and Sima Cheng had no descendants.
Sima Huang, the king of Xia Pi Xian, whose courtesy name was Ziming, was granted the title of Wu Shihuang Fort by the Wei Dynasty. He was granted the title of Huangmen Shilang, and was granted the title of Youtongnan instead, and was appointed as the prefect of Sechai.
Gentong accepted the abdication and granted him the title of Gongwu King, granting 5,176 households in the city. Husi went to the state in the second year of the grant.
Sima Huang was filial, friendly, honest, honest, modest and respectful to the wise men, and was highly praised by the clan.
Later he served as captain of Changshui and general of Nanzhonglang.
In the ninth year, the edict said: "Nanzhong Lang General and Xiapi King Genma Huang are honest and upright, open-minded and honest in their affairs. They can be general in political affairs and have civil and military strategies and insights."
Sima Huang was appointed as envoy Chijie, commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Ningyi and other states, general of Anxi, and governor of Yizhou.
Sima Huang did not take up the post due to illness, so he was changed to Shangshu and Youpuse.
A long time later, he served as the general of Zhendong and the commander-in-chief of the military affairs of Qingxu and Xuzhou.
Emperor Hui ascended the throne and went to Beijing as a general of chariots and cavalry, and as a regular attendant of casual cavalry.
Yang Jun was about to be killed, and Sima Huang was asked to lead the army and guard Shuyemen. Soon he was appointed minister.
He was moved to the position of Sikong and was appointed as a minister, but his position as Shangshu Ling remained the same. Yuankang passed away in the sixth year of his reign and was posthumously awarded the title of Taifu.
He has two sons: Sima Pei and Sima Chuo.
Sima Pei died early, and Sima Chuo was seriously ill. He was named the king of Liangcheng County and allowed Wei, the third son of Sima Fu, king of Taiyuan, to succeed him.
He was promoted to Shizhong and Shangshu. He died early and was succeeded by his son Shao.
Taiyuan Lie Wang Sima Quan, courtesy name Ziquan, was the Marquis of Changleting in Wei, and was renamed the Marquis of Guishou Township.
He successively served as General Zhenwei, Secretary and Supervisor, and was named Gushizi.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and was granted the title of King of Taiyuan, with 5,496 households in the city. In the second year of Taishi, he was granted the title of King of Taiyuan.
In the fourth year after entering the imperial court, he was given the attire of Gun Mian and moved to the post of General of Shu Zhonglang.
Ten years after his death, the edict said: Sima Quan had a loyal heart and an elegant and bright intellect.
He has held various civil and military positions and has a record of being an official.
When you leave the capital and go to your own feudal country, people of all ethnic groups will feel attached to you and guard Xudu, and your strategies can be recorded.
Unfortunately, he died young and I mourn him very much.
Now he is buried not far away and is a posthumous gift to the former general.
His son Sima Ji succeeded him and was granted the title of King of Hejian. There is another legend.
Sima Gui, king of Gaoyang Yuan Dynasty, named Zizhang, was talented and famous when he was young, and was the Marquis of Gaoyang Township in Wei Dynasty.
He successively served as the magistrate of Henan, was promoted to the title of Zhenyangzi, and was granted the title of Shilang of Huangmen.
Emperor Wu accepted Tang's concession and named him King of Gaoyang, granting him a fief of 5,570 households.
He successively served as General Beizhonglang and supervised all military affairs in Yecheng.
In the sixth year of Taishi's reign, he entered the imperial court. Because his father Sima Huo was old, he asked to stay in Beijing to support him.
He was promoted to minister, and moved to the position of right servant.
After his death ten years ago, the imperial edict sent Dahong Lu to supervise the funeral and posthumously presented him to the generals of chariots and cavalry and the three divisions of Yitong.
Sima Gui had a good reputation in the world, and the emperor mourned him very much.
Since he had no son, the imperial edict allowed Si Zhouwei, the son of King Sima Fu of Taiyuan, to inherit the title.
Sima Ji passed away in the fifth year of his succession and in the fourth year of Xianning's reign, and his nickname was Sai.
Since he had no son, the imperial edict in the second year of Taikang asked the Lord to wish Sima Yi, the son of Wang Danwuji's eldest son Sima Ji, to be Sima Ji's heir and be granted the title of Zhenshiji.
Sima Heng, the Xiaowang of Changshan, whose courtesy name was Ziping, was granted the title of Marquis of Deyang Township in Wei Dynasty.
He was granted the title of Ruyangzi and was appointed Prince-in-law as the Commander-in-Chief.
Emperor Wu accepted the offer and granted him the title of King of Changshan, granting him the title of 3,790 households.
He died in the second year without any sons, and he was succeeded by Sima Yin, the fourth son of Sima Yong, the eldest son of King Anping Xian.
Peishun King Sima Jing, courtesy name Ziwen, was the Le'anting Marquis of Wei.
He has successively served as an admonishment official.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and granted him the title of King Gen of Pei, granting him a fief of 3,400 households.
After reigning for eleven years, he died in the first year of Xianning and was succeeded by his son Sima Tao.
Sima Quan, King Mu of Pengcheng, also known as Ziyu, was the son of Sima Kui, the Hou of Dongwucheng, the younger brother of Emperor Xuan, Wei Luxiang.
When he first inherited the title, he served as a servant.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and granted him the title of King of Pengcheng, granting him a title of 2,900 households.
He served as Beizhonglang General and Commander-in-Chief of Yecheng's military defense.
When he entered the imperial court during the Taishi period, he was given the attire of Gun Crown.
He died in the first year of Xianning and was succeeded by his son Sima Zhi, King of Yuan Dynasty.
He successively held the post of general, and soon the official worship was the prince of the country, the minister of wine, the imperial servant, the minister, and the minister.
He served as General Anshu and Commander-in-Chief of the Yangzhou military forces, and guarded Shouchun in place of Sima Yun, King of Huainan, but did not set out.
Some people say that Sima Zhi helped Sima Yun attack Sima Lun, the king of Zhao, and died of depression.
He gave posthumous gifts to generals of chariots and cavalry, and increased the number of fiefs to 15,000 households.
His son Kang Wang Sima Shi succeeded him, and he was promoted to General Nanzhonglang, General Chijie, and General Pingnan. He divided Lu Guofan and Xue counties to expand his feudal state, with a total of 23,000 households.
After his death, his son Sima Xiong was the heir. He was convicted and killed for defecting to Su Jun, so Sima Xian, the son of Sima Shi, was the heir.
Sima Xian, whose courtesy name was Weide, was initially named the Duke of Tangyi County.
In the last years of Jianxing, Emperor Yuan succeeded Sima Xianyu to Sima Ju, King of Gaomi, in accordance with the emperor's decree.
When Emperor Yuan came to the throne, Sima Xian became the Minister of Sanqi and moved to the post of Lieutenant of the Yi Army and former General.
After Sima Xiong was executed, Sima Xian returned to inherit his clan.
The official paid homage to the prince of the country and offered wine, and was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi. Soon he was moved to the post of principal and secretary of the great clan.
With madness, emotions and rationality cannot last.
Sometimes I want to report something to Shuchen and show it to the ministers.
He humbly returned the seal crown behind closed doors and wrote "Dumen Fu" to express his ambition.
Therefore, he changed his position to Dr. Guanglu and served as Grand Master, while his position of permanent attendant remained the same.
Later, he became seriously ill and indulged in excess. Sometimes he attacked and plundered military temples, sometimes he hurt officials and their families, he spoke harshly and hurt people, and he slandered his superiors and subordinates.
Then he rushed into Duanmen by car and arrived in front of Taiji Hall.
So the censor Zhongcheng Cheguan presented an impeachment petition, requesting that Sima Xian be removed from his official position and sent to the country where he was entrusted to be strictly guarded and restrained.
Emperor Cheng issued an edict: The king is a virtuous and talented relative, and he occupies a high position as a master. He should widely preach morality and cultivate virtue, so that his conduct will be quiet and single-minded.
But recently I have been wandering around a lot and walking in the wind and dust.
The officials below should be ordered to serve as guards according to their duties, and the king should not be allowed to have such trouble again.
Internal and external organizations must treat their responsibilities carefully.
The king can dispense with his regular attendants, Guanglu, and masters. He can take back the carts and oxen he gave previously, and he can give rice cloth beds and tents for recuperation.
When Xiankang died in the eighth year of his reign, he was given a posthumous gift to Dr. Sanqi Changshi and Jin Ziguanglu.
He has two sons: Sima Xuan and Sima Jun.
Sima Xuan's successor.
Coincidentally, the Gengxu system did not allow concealment of the number of households, and Sima Xuan hid five households. Huan Wen reported that Sima Xuan had violated the ban, and arrested him and handed him over to the Tingwei.
After that, he was pardoned and made a minister of Zhongshu.
After his death, his son Sima Hongzhi succeeded him, and his official position was to serve as a regular attendant.
After his death, he was succeeded by his son Sima Shao.
After his death, he was succeeded by his son Sima Chongzhi.
After his death, he was succeeded by his son Sima Ji.
After Song accepted the abdication, the feudal state was cancelled.
Prince Gong, Sima Jun, also known as Daodu, was adopted by King Sima Lue of Gaomi, and his official position was to serve as a regular attendant.
After his death, his son King Jing Sima Chunzhi succeeded him, and he successively served as the internal history of Linchuan, the minister of the Shaofu of Sinong, and the right chief minister of the Dazai.
After his death, he was succeeded by his son Sima Hui.
In the last years of Yixi's reign, he concurrently served as Taiwei as a minister, repaired and paid homage to the Luoyang Garden Mausoleum.
After Song Dynasty accepted the concession, the feudal state was cancelled.
Sima Tai, the king of Gaomi literature, whose courtesy name was Zishu, was the younger brother of Sima Quan, the king of Mu in Pengcheng. He was appointed Marquis of Yangting in Wei, supplemented by Yang Zhailing, and moved to the post of prefect of Fufeng.
Emperor Wu accepted the offer and made him the king of Longxi, granting him a city of 3,200 households and worshiping him as a guerrilla general.
He was appointed governor of Yanzhou and awarded the title of General Yingyang.
He was moved to the post of envoy Chijie, governor of the military affairs of the two states of Ningyi, general of Anxi, and governor of Yizhou. He claimed to be ill and did not go to his post.
He was transferred to General Anbei and replaced his brother Sima Quan to supervise the defense of Yecheng.
He was moved to the post of General of Anxi and Governor of Guanzhong.
In the early years of Taikang, he entered the court and served as a regular servant of Sanqi, a former general, and a captain of Yecheng Gate. He resigned due to illness.
Later, he replaced Sima Huang, King of Xiapi, as Shangshu Zuopushe.
He served as the general of Zhenxi, and concurrently as the captain of the Western Rong army and Jiajie. He replaced the Fufeng King Sima Jun to supervise the military affairs in Guanzhong. He returned to the capital due to illness.
In the early years of Yongxi's reign, he replaced Shi Jian as Sikong, and soon served as the crown prince's Taibao.
When Yang Jun was executed, Sima Tai also took charge of Yang Jun's military camp, and was granted the title of servant, with 2,500 infantry and 500 horses.
Sima Tai refused firmly and gave one thousand infantry and one hundred horses.
When Sima Zhang, the king of Chu, was arrested, Sima Tai ordered his troops to rescue him. Ding Sui offered wine and admonished him: As a prime minister, you cannot act rashly.
Besides, it was a hurry at night, so someone should be sent to participate in the interrogation.
Sima Tai obeyed him.
After Sima Zhang was executed, he appointed Sima Tailu as the Secretary, moved him to Taiwei, tried to be the Secretary, and changed his title to King of Gaomi, granting him a fief of 10,000 households.
Yuankang died in the ninth year of his life and was posthumously awarded the title of Taifu.
Sima Tai has a clean and quiet character and is not close to musical women.
Although he is a prime minister and a minister and enjoys the rent and wealth of a large country, he dresses and eats like ordinary people.
He is straightforward, simple and frank. At every court meeting, people who don't know him don't know that he is a prince.
It is the appearance of a royal family to serve parents with respect and prudence, to be mournful and sorrowful during mourning, and to be humble and willing to live under others.
Among the kings at that time, only Sima Tai and Sima Huang, king of Xiapi, were praised for their self-control.
Although they can't provide relief, no one can compare with them in other aspects.
Sima Tai had four sons: Sima Yue, Sima Teng, Sima Lue, and Sima Mo.
Sima Yue himself has a biography.
Sima Tengyu succeeded his uncle, and his younger brother Sima Lue succeeded him.
The filial king, Sima Lue, whose courtesy name was Yuan Jian, was filial and kind, and treated the wise men with caution and humility, a bit like his father.
In the early years of Yuankang, Prince Minghuai was in the uterus of the Crown Prince, and he selected prestigious people among the ministers' children as guests and friends. Sima Lue, Hua Heng and others served at the Prince's side.
He successively served as the minister of the Huangmen of Sanqi, the regular servant of the Sanqi, secretary and supervisor, general of Annan, Chijie, and governor of all military affairs in Miannan, and moved to general Anbei and governor of all military affairs in Qingzhou.
Sima Lue threatened Cheng Mu, the governor of Qingzhou, but Cheng Mu avoided him, and Sima Lue took charge of Qingzhou himself.
In the early years of Yongxing, he ordered Liu Gen to raise troops in Donglai, deceive and confuse the people, and tens of thousands of people followed him. He attacked Sima Lue in Linzi, but Sima Lue could not resist and went to Liaocheng to defend.
Emperor Huai ascended the throne and moved to the three departments of Envoy Chijie, Commander-in-Chief of Jingzhou's military affairs, General Zhengnan, and Kaifu Yitong.
Wang Di, an exiled man from Jingzhao, and Hao Luo, an old man, gathered thousands of people and stationed themselves at Champion.
Sima Lue sent Cui Kuang to join the army and led generals Pi Chu, Zhang Luo and others to attack Wang Di. They fell into Wang Di's plan and were defeated.
Sima Lue then sent Sima Cao of the left to lead Cui Kuang and others to attack Wang Di.
When the battle was about to begin, Cui Kuang quietly retreated and ran away. Cao Xu's army had no backup and was defeated. Cao Xu died on the battlefield.
Sima Lue pardoned Cui Kuang's sins and sent his general Han Song to supervise Cui Kuang again to attack Wang Di. Wang Di surrendered.
Soon after he came to the throne and opened a mansion, he was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi.
When Yongjia died in the third year, he was given posthumously to Shizhong and Taiwei. His son Sima Ju succeeded him.
He died without a son and was succeeded by Sima Xian, the son of King Kang of Pengcheng.
Later, Sima Xian returned to his clan and established Sima Xian's son Sima Jun as his heir.
Sima Teng, the king of Wu'ai in Xincai, was named Yuanmai. When he was young, he was worshiped as a servant and served as a servant. He was granted the title of Shu Yinggong. He successively served as the prefect of Nanyang and Wei counties and was competent in his official position. He was recruited as Zongzheng, moved to Taichang, and transferred to Chijie, general of Ningbei, governor of Bingzhou's military affairs, and governor of Bingzhou.
Emperor Hui attacked Sima Ying, king of Chengdu, and the six armies were defeated.
Sima Teng and Anbei general Wang Jun killed Sima Ying's Youzhou governor He Yan and led a crowd to attack Sima Ying.
Sima Ying sent Beizhonglang general Wang Bin to fight. Wang Jun led the Xianbei cavalry to attack Wang Bin, with Sima Teng as backup, and defeated the enemy.
Sima Ying was frightened and took the emperor hostage back to Luoyang, where she promoted Sima Teng to General Anbei.
In the early years of Yongjia, he was moved to the post of General of Chariots and Cavalry, Commander-in-Chief of Yecheng, and all military guards to guard Ye.
Because of his meritorious service in welcoming the emperor, he was renamed King Xincai.
At first, Sima Teng set out from Bingzhou and was stationed in Zhending.
When it snowed heavily, the snow was several feet deep on the ground, and the snow melted and did not accumulate in front of the camp gate. Sima Teng felt strange and dug up the land. He got a jade horse, about a foot high, and dedicated the jade horse to him.
Later, Ji Sang and others from Gongshi Fan and Pingyang people formed a group of bandits and raised troops in He County, Qinghe. More than a thousand people followed them to attack Dunqiu. On the pretext of burying Sima Ying, the king of Chengdu, he carried Sima Ying's memorial tablet in a car and attacked Ye with Zhang Hong's former general Li Feng and other generals.
Sima Teng said: I have been in Chazhou for seven years, and Hu was unable to win when he besieged the city.
That little thief Ji Sang is not worth worrying about.
When Li Feng and others arrived, Sima Teng could not hold on and fled with Qingqi, but was killed by Li Feng.
Sima Teng had four sons: Sima Yu, Sima Jiao, Sima Shao, and Sima Que.
Si Juan was brave and powerful. When Sima Teng was killed, Si Ju chased Kuifeng, and Li Feng jumped into the river and died.
On this day, Sima Yu, Sima Jiao, Sizhi Kui, Cui Ken, the governor of Chuchen, Shi Xianyuan, the chief of cavalry, and Cai Ke, a lieutenant in charge, were killed by Li Feng's remnant party. As for those famous and wealthy people who had drifted and moved to Ye, they were all dead.
At the beginning, although Yezhong's inventory was empty, Sima Teng's capital expenditure was very rich.
Sima Teng was frugal and stingy by nature, and did not give relief favors to people. When things were urgent, he gave the soldiers about a few liters of rice and a few feet of silk each. Therefore, the soldiers and the people did not contribute to him, which led to disaster.
When Gou Xi rescued Ye, Ji Sang returned to Pingyang.
It was midsummer and the corpses were rotten and unrecognizable. The bones of Sima Teng and his three sons were not recovered.
The concubine Sima Que succeeded him.
Sima Que, the king of Zhuang, whose courtesy name was Si'an, served successively as General Dongzhonglang, Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Yuzhou, and guarded Xuchang.
In the last years of Yongjia, he was killed by Shi Le.
He had no sons, so at first Sima Tao, the son of King Sima Hun of Zhangwu, was asked to worship Sima Que, and later Sima Bi, the son of Sima Ku, the mighty king of Runan, was asked to be Sima Que's descendant.
He died in the first year of Taixing without a son, so Sima Bi's younger brother Sima Miao succeeded Sima Que, and his official position was promoted to Shizhong.
After his death, he was succeeded by his son Sima Huang, who became the Minister of Sanqi.
Huan Wen deposed King Wuling, deposed Sima Huang as a commoner, and moved to Hengyang.
Emperor Xiaowu established Sima Huang's younger brother Sima Chong as his heir, Sima Miao, who was killed by his slaves, and his son Sima Hui as his heir.
Song accepted the abdication and the feudal state was cancelled.
Nanyang King Sima Mo's character Yuan Biao was eager to learn when he was young. He was famous in the clan along with Emperor Yuan and Fan Yang King Sima You.
At first he was named Pingchang Gong.
In the last years of Emperor Hui's reign, many officials were worshiped as servants and servants, and gradually he was appointed as the crown prince's concubine and the official's official attendant.
Sima Ying, king of Chengdu, ran to Chang'an, and Yue, king of Donghai, appointed Sima Mo as Beizhonglang general to guard Ye.
In the early years of Yongxing, Shi Ai, Lou Quan, Hao Chang and others who had served under King Sima Ying of Chengdu attacked Ye, and Sima Mo's men planned and responded.
Ding Shao, the prefect of Guangping, led his people to rescue Sima Mo. Sima Yan, the king of Fanyang, sent Kuiye governor Baodong to rescue him. Gong Yingxing and others fled separately.
He was moved to the post of General Zhendong and guarded Xuchang.
He was promoted to the title of King of Nanyang.
In the early years of Yongjia, he was transferred to General Zhengxi, Kaifu, and Commander-in-Chief of Qin Yong and Liang Yi Zhu, replacing Wang Yong of Hejian to guard Guanzhong.
Sima Mo was grateful for Ding Shao's kindness and ordered his countrymen to erect a monument for Gong Shao during his lifetime.
At that time, there was a famine in Guanzhong, the people were eating each other, and there were diseases and plagues, and thieves openly committed evil.
Sima Mo couldn't control his power, so he cast bronze human bells and tripods into cooking utensils in exchange for food. The commentators rejected this approach.
Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, summoned Sima Mo as Sikong and sent Fu Zhi, the supervisor of Zhongshu, to replace Sima Mo.
Sima Mo's adviser Chun Yuding persuaded Sima Mo: Guanzhong is the land of abundance and the overlord's territory.
If he returns to the court because he cannot be appeased, it will already damage his reputation. Besides, the Duke's brothers advocate important things, and both of them are in the court. If you are strong, you will be accused of being authoritarian, and if you are weak, you will be controlled by others. Returning to the court will not be beneficial to you.
Sima Mo accepted his words and refused to go to the conscription.
The emperor sent his eldest son, Sima Bao, to serve as General of the West Zhonglang and Colonel of the East Qiang to guard Shangying. Pei Bao, the governor of Qinzhou, rejected Sima Bao.
Sima Mo sent his captain Chen An to lead his troops to attack Pei Bao, but Pei Bao ran to Anding.
The prefect Mai Tzu led the county people to welcome Pei Bao, and Sima Mo sent military commander Xie Ban to attack Jia Tzu, who fled to Lu River.
This year, he was promoted to Taiwei and Grand Governor.
Luo Jing was overthrown, and Sima Mo sent Yamen Zhao Ran to guard Pu Ban. Za Ran asked Prefect Feng Yi for help but failed, so he got angry and led everyone to surrender to Liu Cong.
Liu Cong sent his sons Liu Can and Chan Ran to attack Chang'an. Sima Mo sent Chunyu Ding to resist, but was defeated by Chan Yuan.
Everyone betrayed and fled, and the warehouse was empty. The army offered wine to Wei Fu and said: "The matter is urgent. Surrender early to avoid disaster."
Sima Mo obeyed him and surrendered to Zhao Ran.
Zhao Ran sat with his feet forward, rolled up his sleeves, recited Sima Mo's crimes, and sent them to Liu Can.
Liu Can killed Sima Mo and gave Sima Mo's concubine Liu to the Hu man Zhang Ben as his wife.
Sima Mo's son Sima Bao succeeded him.
Sima Bao, whose courtesy name is Jingdu, was talented in literature when he was young and loved writing.
At first he was named the Crown Prince of Nanyang Kingdom.
When Sima Mo was killed, Sima Bao was in Shangying.
Later, when Mai Bao died and Pei Bao was killed by Zhang Gui, Sima Bao completely controlled the territory of Qinzhou. He was known as the Great Sima and appointed hundreds of officials according to his will.
All the Di and Qiang people in Longyou obeyed him, and Zhang Ku, the governor of Liangzhou, sent envoys to contribute.
When Emperor Min came to the throne, he appointed Sima Bao as the right prime minister, and was appointed as the minister in charge and the commander-in-chief of all military affairs in Shaanxi.
Soon he became the prime minister.
After Sima Mo's defeat, Captain Chen An defected to Sima Bao. Sima Bao ordered him to lead more than a thousand elite warriors to attack the Qiang, and treated Chen An well.
Sima Bao's general Zhang Chun and others were jealous, falsely accused Chen An of having second thoughts, and requested to get rid of him, but Sima Bao did not agree.
Zhang Chun and others ambush assassins to assassinate Chen An. Chen An was injured and ran back to Longcheng. He sent envoys to Sima Bao and paid tribute continuously.
After Emperor Min suffered humiliation, Sima Bao claimed to be King of Jin.
At that time, there was a serious famine in Shangbang and the officers and soldiers were in embarrassment. Zhang Chun escorted Sima Bao to Nan'an.
Chen An himself was appointed governor of Qinzhou and claimed to belong to Liu Yao.
Zhang Chun escorted Sima Bao to Sangcheng, and was about to join Zhang Fu.
Zhang Gong sent troops to meet Sima Bao, which was actually to guard against him.
This year, Sixingbao died of illness at the age of twenty-seven.
Danwubao is tall and fat. He once claimed to weigh 800 kilograms.
He sleeps well but suffers from impotence and cannot have sex with women.
Having no sons, Zhang Chun established his successor as Sima Zhan.
Chen An raised troops to attack Zhang Chun, Zhang Chun fled, Sima Zhan surrendered to Chen An, Chen An sent him to Liu Yao, and Liu Yao killed him.
Chen An welcomed Sima Bao's coffin and buried him in Shangying according to the emperor's etiquette. His title was Yuan.
Sima Sui, King of Fan Yangkang, named Zidu, was the younger brother of Sima Quan, King of Pengcheng. At first he was appointed as an admonishing official.
He was granted the title in the first year of Taishi and reigned for fifteen years.
He died in the fifth year of Xianning and was succeeded by his son Sima Gai.
Sima Fei, also known as Wuhui, was famous for his studiousness when he was young. He studied and revised classics, was good at speaking out and argued clearly.
Because he was a relative of the clan, he was selected as a regular servant of Sanqi and was gradually promoted to minister.
He served as General Annan, Commander-in-Chief of all military affairs in Yuzhou, and guarded Xuchang. He was promoted to General Conquering the South.
Sima Yong, the king of Hejian, proposed to appoint Wang Siyan of Shengdu as his younger brother. Wang Jun defeated him and took the emperor hostage back to Luoyang.
Sima Gai, King Sima Liu of Dongping, General Zhou Fu of Zhendong, and others reported to the emperor: Since the murder of Prince Huai, there has been no heir to the throne and the heavy responsibility has been given to the former prime minister, so he has lost the integrity of being a minister.
Therefore, the year before last, the Dazai and his ministers had been considering the choice of the crown prince for a long time. They could not keep the vacancy vacant for a long time, so they jointly announced the appointment of King Sima Ying of Chengdu as the crown prince.
After Sima Ying accepted the important task, she could not shoulder the heavy responsibility. The villain doesn't use it, but treats it as a confidant.
There should be honesty between flesh and blood, but suspicion and frivolity appear again and again. Those who are insidious and evil should be kept at a distance, but slanders will arise in droves.
This is because we are not smart and make mistakes in respecting and relying on people.
So if His Majesty makes a mistake in authorization, even if he kills us, it will not be enough to apologize to the world.
Now that the emperor has returned to the palace, there are no civil and military officials, the system is ruined and destroyed, and nothing remains. Although the ministers are inferior, they are enough to assist the royal family.
According to outside rumors, Zhang Fang is different from us.
I regret that he caused chaos while in office, but I also think of Dazai's honesty, integrity, integrity and kindness, which are obvious to all. In the face of moral integrity, he serves as an example for the country's clan allies.
Zhang Fang received his guidance and devoted himself to the country.
I would rather die than have any second thoughts about my actions in previous years.
He is Dazai's good general and His Majesty's loyal minister.
Just because he is strong and determined by nature and cannot adapt to changes, he sticks to his previous ambitions, leading to confusion.
However, taking a step back to think about it, we must not only confirm his unchanging moral integrity, but also think that after the change of circumstances, he will be blamed by the world, so he will not return to the west immediately.
Looking to the bottom of the matter, there is really no serious responsibility.
We have heard that the enlightened monarchs of the past generations always fulfilled and protected their meritorious officials so that their blessings could be passed on to their descendants.
Since the Middle Ages, His Majesty's heroes have begun to have no one who can be saved. It is not that they are all poor in talent. They have caused disasters because of the improper policies of the imperial court and their inability to tolerate and forgive each other.
Because of one morning's mistake, many years of meritorious deeds were lost, which not only violated the "Zhou Rites" regulations for evaluating meritorious deeds, but also made no one in the world dare to dedicate their integrity to His Majesty.
Are our words just for Zhang Fang? They are actually for the long-term plan of the country, and we want the heroes to have wealth for a long time.
Our stupid idea is that the important task of Guan You should be given to Dazai. Major matters of one party, as well as elections and appointments from the prefecture and county level, all depend on his success.
If it is a major matter in the court, such as deletion, use, reduction and gain, consult him.
The so-called second uncle reports on government affairs, and Duke Zhou and Duke Zhao govern the east and west sides of Shaanxi respectively. Your Majesty has implemented it again today.
Send Zhang Fang back to the county to let the kings express their wishes and stabilize the royal family at any time.
Please follow all the official positions awarded to Zhang Fang as before.
This will make the heroes and righteous people work hard, and the heroes will be saved.
Situ Rong is a wise man with a different surname; Sikong Sima Yue is a celebrity in the clan. Both of them are loyal to the country and love the monarch. They are cautious and suitable for handling confidential state affairs and leave them to the government.
Anbei General Wang Jun is a descendant of Sasuke's destiny. He is morally upright, loyal and honest, and is highly respected by people near and far.
Such a big move as now is really a contribution to stabilizing the country. This is the reason why we sigh and admire it.
Wang Jun should be particularly praised and reused to meet everyone's expectations, to smoothly control Youshuo, and to serve as a northern barrier for a long time.
We try our best to defend our territory and the royal family. Your Majesty does not need to expend any effort, and the world will naturally be peaceful.
Then the business of the four generations of ancestors will surely prosper today. The brilliance of the sun and moon, dimmed and then brightened again.
I implore Your Majesty to think twice and examine our remarks.
We can also show our table to Dazai in the west.
He also said in the table: The King of Chengdu deviated from morality and was delayed by evil. When it comes to the King himself, we should not be overly blamed.
Besides, the descendants of the late Emperor and the brothers of His Majesty have been punished and killed continuously since Yuankang. The country is actually in chaos because of this, and we, the ministers, are saddened by this.
If the King of Chengdu is deposed and a city is enfeoffed, he should approve of it.
If the deposedness causes harm soon, not only hurting His Majesty's compassionate and kind grace, but also causing people near and far to say that the royal family no longer has flesh and blood ties, this will really make us feel sad and ashamed, and it will be shameless in the world.
Please, Your Majesty, appreciate our sincerity.
So Sima Cheng took the lead in moving everyone from Xu to Rongyang to garrison.
Coinciding with Emperor Hui's westward move, Sima Cheng formed an alliance with his cousin Ma Mo of Pingchang Company, Chief Shi Feng Song and others, and elected Sima Yue, King of the East China Sea, as the leader of the alliance.
Liu Qiao refused to accept the restraint of Sima Yue and others and took advantage of the opportunity to attack Xu.
Sima Cheng moved to cross the Yellow River on his own, and Wang Jun asked Sima Ji to serve as the governor of Jizhou to support his troops.
Sima Yan entered Jizhou to mobilize his troops, then crossed the Yellow River south and defeated Liu Qiao and others.
When Sima Ji, the king of Hejian, heard that Liu Qiao was defeated, he killed Zhang Fang and sent his head to Sima Yue.
Sima Yue and Sima Jin went west to meet the emperor, while Sima Ke fled.
So he escorted the emperor back to the capital and worshiped Sima Ji as Situ.
In the third year of Yongxing's reign, he fell seriously ill and died at the age of thirty-seven.
He had no son, so he adopted Sima Mo's son Sima Li Jisi. Sima Li followed Sima Mo to his own kingdom and was killed in Chang'an.
Sima Sui, King Hui of Jinan, also known as Zibo, was the son of Wei Honglu, Sima Xun, the younger brother of Emperor Xuan.
He was appointed as the Marquis of Guannei in Wei, was promoted to the Marquis of Qianchang Ting, and successively served as Dianjunlang.
In the second year of Jingyuan, he was granted the title of Rural Marquis of Wucheng, the governor of Yecheng and the general of Beizhonglang.
The fifth-class title was established, and he was named Zhu Abo, and gradually moved to the title of champion general.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and named him King of Jinan.
He died in the second year of Taishi.
He has two sons: Sima Dan and Sima Ji.
Sima Dan succeeded him and was renamed King of Zhongshan in the third year of Xianning.
He died that year without any sons, and Sima Ji succeeded him.
When the day was prosperous, Sima Ying appointed Sima Ji as General Jianwei. He, Hu Ju and others led the army to resist Wang Chuang, but fell into the battle formation and died.
Without a son, the feudal state was cancelled.
Later, Sima Sui's great-grandson Sima Xun, named Wei Chang, was more than ten years old. At the end of Emperor Min's reign, Chang'an fell, and Liu Yao's general Linghu Ni adopted Sima Xun as his son.
When he reaches adulthood, he will be familiar with archery, horseback riding, and can shoot the bow left and right. In the sixth year of Xianhe, he came back from Guanyou and claimed to be the great-great-grandson of Sima Xun of Great Changqiu, the great-grandson of the champion general Sima Sui, King Hui of Jinan, and the son of Sima Can, the prefect of Lueyang. He therefore paid homage to Pu She, who was famous for his bravery.
When Yu Yi was guarding Xiangyang, because Huan Xuan, the governor of Liangzhou, died, he asked Sima Xun to take his place.
Initially stationed in Xicheng, he retreated to Wudang.
At that time, Shi Jilong died and the Central Plains was in turmoil. The powerful generals in Yongzhou quickly reported to Sima Xun.
Sima Xun led his army out of Luo Valley and camped at Hangou, two hundred miles away from Chang'an. He dispatched general Liu Huan to attack Chang'an and capture Hecheng.
So Guanzhong all responded to Sima Xun by killing Ji Long's prefect commander.
Sima Xun had few soldiers and could not stabilize himself, so he retreated to Liangzhou.
During the Yonghe period, Zhang Ju occupied Longsu and sent an envoy to summon Sima Xun, who then entered Chang'an.
At first, Du Hong, a native of Jingzhao, was superior to Zhang Ju because he was a wealthy man. Zhang Ju humiliated Du Hong because of his bravery. Du Hong knew that Sima Xun was afraid that Zhang Ju would strengthen his army, so he persuaded Sima Xun: If Zhang Ju is not killed, Guanzhong will not be owned by the country.
Sima Xun then pretended to invite Zhang Ju and killed him on the spot.
Zhang Ju's younger brother ran to Chiyang and gathered his troops to attack Sima Xun. After repeated defeats, he sued for peace and returned to Liangzhou.
Later, Huan Wen attacked Guanzhong and ordered Sima Xun to send troops to Ziwu Road, but he was defeated by Fu Xiong; he withdrew his troops and stationed himself at Nuwa Fort.
Soon he was promoted to the general who conquered the captives, supervising the military affairs in Guanzhong, and also the captain of the Xirong school. He was given the title of Marquis of Tongjiting.
He was tyrannical and cruel in politics. As for the wealthy families under his jurisdiction and the state, if his words did not agree with him, he would kill them on their seats, or shoot them themselves with bows.
The West is worried about his cruelty.
In the state, he often wanted to occupy the Shu territory and had the intention of separatizing the Baifeng Dynasty.
After Huan Wen heard about it, he devoted himself to appeasement and care and made his son Sima Kang the governor of Hanzhong.
Sima Xun's rebellious plan was completed, but he did not take action because he was afraid of Zhou Fu, the governor of Yizhou.
When Zhou Fu died, he gathered his troops into the sword pavilion.
Liangzhou Biejia Yongduan and Xirong Sima Kaicui earnestly advised him, but they were both killed by Sima Xun. He claimed to be the shepherd of the two states of Liangyi and the king of Chengdu.
Huan Wen sent Zhuzhuang to attack Sima Xun. Sima Xun's army was defeated and he was captured by Saizhuang. He and his son Long Wang, Chang Shisu, Sima Jintong and others were escorted to Danzhou Nahuo. They were all killed and their heads were sent to the capital.
Sima Xun, the king of Qiao Gang, whose courtesy name was Zi Ti, was the son of Sima Jin, the younger brother of Emperor Xuan, Wei Zhonglang.
He was appointed Marquis of Wei Guannei and was granted the title of Marquis of Yangting of Chengcheng. He participated in the military affairs and was worshiped as General Qingche and Zuojian Yulin.
The fifth-class title was established and the title was changed to Jingyang Nan.
Emperor Wu accepted the concession and named him King Qiao, granting him a fief of 4,400 households.
He died in the second year of Taishi.
He has two sons: Sima Sui and Sima Cheng.
King Ding Sima succeeded him.
After his death, his son Sima Sui succeeded him. He died in Shile. Emperor Yuan asked Sima to succeed him and his successor Sima Xun.
King Min Sima Cheng was named Jingcai. He was loyal, ambitious and virtuous when he was young.
At the invitation of the imperial court, he was promoted to General of Guangwei and Protector of Anyi to guard An'ding.
He returned to Luoyang with Emperor Hui and became a guerrilla general.
During the Yongjia period, the world gradually became chaotic, and they secretly attached themselves to Shan Jian, the general who conquered the south. When Shan Jian died, he entered Wuchang.
When Emperor Yuan began to guard Yangzhou, Sima Cheng returned to Jiankang and took up the post of military counselor and wine worshiper.
Emperor Min summoned him as General Longxiang, but he refused to take up the post.
Emperor Yuan became the King of Jin, and according to the decree, he changed the title of Sima Cheng to King Qiao.
In the early years of Taixing, he was appointed as the captain of the Tunqi School, and was appointed as the general of the auxiliary state and the general of the left army.
Sima Cheng was frugal as an official and did not take concubines.
Soon after, he was appointed as a regular servant of Sanqi, and his positions of auxiliary to the country and left army remained.
Wang Dun was disloyal to the king, and the memorial was arrogant.
The emperor summoned Sima Cheng at night, showed him Wang Dun's watch, and said, "Wang Dun has gained a high position in power in recent years, and there is no limit to what he wants. What should we do with him?"
Sima Cheng said: If your Majesty does not rule on this matter early, disaster will happen.
The emperor wanted to build a barrier, but when Wang Dun petitioned Shen, the inner historian of Xuancheng, to serve as the governor of Xiangzhou, the emperor said to Sima Cheng: The southern Chu territory of Xiangzhou must be fortified. It is in a strategic position on the upper reaches and controls the intersection of the three states. It is a fiefdom that can be used with troops.
What if I let my uncle guard it?
Sima Cheng said: I am fortunate to be entrusted to my relatives and assume the position of guard. I have not done my best to serve, and I have been treated too generously. Morning and night, I encourage myself and think about repaying God's kindness.
I can only do my best according to the king's orders, how dare I refuse!
However, Xiangzhou was sent back by the enemies of the Shu Kingdom, and its characters were in decline. If I relied on the power of God and achieved some success in official positions, after three years, I was asked to serve in the army.
If you don't reach that point, even if you die, it will be of no benefit.
So Xia Shaoshu said: As a king, you should understand the will of heaven and govern all things. Without many talents, you cannot complete the great cause.
Recruit wise men and philosophers externally to establish a good reputation, and harmonize relatives internally to expand the barriers and barriers.
Therefore, Taigong was granted the title of Qi, and Boqin lived in Lu. This was a beautiful system of the ancient kings and a moral principle that has prevailed in ancient and modern times.
Our Jin Dynasty established its foundation, and all countries faced each other, so they appointed King Wu of Langye to guard and rule the Eastern Xia; Wencheng of Runan was in charge of Huaixu; King Fufeng and King Liang successively guarded Guanyou; and when Shuying came, he set up an official office in Bingzhou.
Although the number of public clans today is no better than in the past, how can the old charter be abandoned?
Sima Cheng, the regular servant of Sanqi, General Zuo, and King Qiao, is chaste, honest and upright, loyal and respectful in his heart. As a barrier to the left and right, his respect is even more obvious.
Now Sima Cheng is appointed to supervise the military affairs of Xiangzhou, General Nan Zhonglang, and the governor of Xiangzhou.
At first, Liu Wei thought that Wang Dun was too powerful and would eventually be difficult to control, so he persuaded the emperor to send his confidants to guard the place.
Therefore, Sima Cheng was first appointed to Xiangzhou, and then Liu Wei, Dai Ruosi and others were appointed as state pastors.
Sima Cheng traveled to Wuchang and went to see Wang Dun unarmed.
Wang Dun held a banquet for him and wanted to observe Sima Cheng's intention. He said to Sima Cheng: Although the king is an elegant and talented man, I am afraid he is not a general.
Sima Cheng said: I don’t necessarily know, can’t the lead knife cut it in one go?
Sima Cheng said this because Wang Dun wanted to test his true feelings.
As expected, Wang Dun said to Qian Feng: He doesn't know how to speak boldly even if he is afraid. What can a person like this who doesn't understand martial arts do?
Let Sima Cheng go to his post.
At that time, the land in Hunan was desolate and the public and private affairs were poor. Sima Cheng was frugal in person, rode a reed cart, and comforted him wholeheartedly, which earned him a good reputation.
Wang Dun was afraid that he would become a disaster for himself, so he pretended to be a Northern Expedition and requisitioned all the ships in Sima Cheng's territory.
Sima Cheng knew about his treacherous plan and gave half of it to him.
Wang Dun soon began to create turmoil, and sent Huan Zhao, who joined the army, to persuade Sima Cheng. On the grounds that Liu Wei was a favorite and was now going on a crusade, Sima Cheng was appointed military commander and went on the road according to the military schedule.
Sima Cheng sighed and said: I'm probably going to die!
The land is desolate and sparsely populated, and the forces are alone and without reinforcements.
Going into danger for the king is loyalty; dying for the king is righteousness.
With loyalty and righteousness, what more can you ask for?
So he wanted to advocate righteous deeds, but everyone was confused.
Sima Cheng said: I have been favored by the country and I have no second thoughts in doing justice.
The governor Shi Yukui was generous, ambitious and honest, and said to Sima Cheng: Wang Dun serves as a local governor as a court official, but once he causes chaos, heaven and earth will not tolerate it, and he will be hated by gods.
The king is the barrier of the clan, how can we obey his deceit?
We should work hard now, our survival depends on this.
So Yu Yu, his brother, former Prime Minister Yu Wang, Jianchang Governor of Changsha Wang Xun, Hengyang Governor of Huailing Liu Yi and others jointly swore an oath to imprison Huan Ba, and quickly issued a proclamation in Xiangzhou, specifying a date to arrive at Baling.
Yin Feng, the prefect of Lingling, first responded to the righteous plan and sent troops to camp in Yang. So the entire state responded to the righteous act.
So he sent Yu Wang to attack the disobedient people and kill Zheng Dan, the governor of eastern Hunan.
Zheng Dan is Wang Dun's brother-in-law.
Wang Dun sent Nanman captain Wei Yi, generals Li Heng, Tian Song and other 20,000 soldiers to attack Sima Cheng.
Sima Cheng fought and defended at the same time, waiting for reinforcements from Yin Feng and Yu Wang. However, the city was not strong and people were very frightened.
Some people advised Sima Cheng to go south to join Tao Kan, and also said that he could retreat to Linggui.
Sima Cheng said: I mobilize people who are righteous and determined to die for their integrity. How can they live in an ignoble way and become a fleeing general?
If things don't work out, I hope people can understand my feelings.
At first, Annan general Gan Zhuo wrote to Sima Cheng, urging Sima Cheng to hold on and send troops out of Miang to cut off Wang Dun's retreat, so that the siege of Xiang would naturally collapse.
Sima Cheng replied: Ji Sizu: Work hard for the king.
The national law was temporarily destroyed, and the Central Plains was in ruins.
The righteous people from all over the world are planning to restore and restore the foundation of Jiangzuo. The preliminary establishment has begun. How could they imagine that evil and rebellion would sprout among the favored ministers.
I am ignorant and short-sighted, and I rely on my royal family members.
Relying on the secret orders in advance, he guarded Nanxia, ​​personally obeyed the edicts, and kept the established rules in his heart.
It is a pity that Bo Ren and other virtuous ministers were on the wrong road. Things were short-lived and everyone was at a loss.
Jackals are easily frightened, so they act shamelessly and viciously, and those who hear about it rise up and become arrogant.
The people's hearts are toward justice, and everyone thinks that one should be worth a hundred. They come without giving orders, and the number of people is thousands.
It is indeed possible to fight decisively in a moment and vent the anger of mountains and seas.
However, due to the rush of time, the boats were not ready, and Wei Yi and Li Heng soon came to surround them. As a result, things went against their wishes and the strength of the mind failed to show.
Thank you for sending me a messenger who has exactly the same intention as mine; my divine plan comes from the depths of my heart.
I read it over and over again, and I can't express my happiness. If you can come quickly with the army, it may be helpful; if you hesitate again, you are asking me, a fish out of water, to struggle again.
I have only heard of people who are clumsy in terms of speed, but I have never seen anyone who is skillful in terms of slowness.
Ji Si takes a step forward and works hard!
Letters cannot fully express my feelings, they are just my suicide notes.
Ganzhuo's army was stationed at Gankou. Hearing that King Qiao's army had been defeated, the army stopped advancing. Wei Yi and others were fighting fiercely day by day. Wang Dun also sent the notes he had obtained from people in Taiwan Province and ordered Wei Yi to shoot them to Sima Cheng.
Everyone in the city felt sad and regretful when they learned that the imperial court could no longer defend it.
Liu Yi died in battle, and the stalemate lasted for more than a hundred days, and the city fell.
Wei Yi sent Sima Cheng to Jingzhou in a carriage. The governor Wang Yu killed him on the way according to Wang Dun's wishes. He was fifty-nine years old at the time.
Wang Dun was pacified, and Xia Shao posthumously awarded Sima Cheng the title of General of Chariots and Cavalry.
His son Wuji succeeded him.
Lie Wang Wuji was named Gongshou. When Sima Cheng was in trouble, he escaped because of his young age.
During the Xianhe period, he was promoted to the rank of Sanqi Shilang, and gradually moved to Tunqi Xiaowei, Zhongshu, and Huangmen Shilang.
Chu Pei, the governor of Jiangzhou, was going to the border town. Wuji, Dan Yang, Yin Huanjing and others paid him a farewell farewell at Banqiao.
At that time, Wang Yu's son Danyang Cheng Qizhi was present. Wuji was determined to take revenge and drew his sword to kill Qizhi himself. Chu Pei and Huan Jing ordered the guards to protect Qizhi before he was spared.
The imperial censor Zhongcheng Che recorded a report saying that Wuji wanted to kill someone on his own initiative and handed it over to Tingwei for punishment.
Emperor Cheng issued an edict saying: Wang Dun caused a rebellion, and King Min was in trouble. Let's explore the origin of the matter. What is the fault of this king?
However, the public and private legal system has also been decided. The king should focus on governing the country. How can he deduce the root cause and mess up the court laws.
Those in charge should state the law, and from now on, those who violate it will be punished.
So he was allowed to be treated as atonement.
In the early years of the founding of the Yuan Dynasty, he moved to the position of regular attendant of Sanqi, then to the position of censor Zhongcheng. He left the capital to serve as the general of the auxiliary state, the prime minister of Changsha, and also the prime minister of Jiangxia. Soon he was transferred to the post of prefect of Nanjun and Hedong counties, and the position of general remained the same.
He followed Dandan in the expedition against Shu, and because of his meritorious service, his youngest son Mo Qing was given the title of Duke Guangzhi, and was given the title of former general. Cheng Mian died in the sixth year and was given posthumously to General Wei.
He has two sons: Sima Tian and Sima Qing.
Sima Tian succeeded.
King Jing Sima Tian was named Yuan Yu. When he was young, he became an official of Sanqi Shilang, and gradually rose to the rank of Sanqi Changshi, Huangmenlang, and Yushi Zhongcheng.
At that time, Duke Haixi was deposed and Emperor Jian Wen ascended the throne. The martial law had not yet been lifted. Grand Sima Xun gathered in the middle hall and blew the police horn. Sima Tian presented an impeachment report but Zhou was disrespectful and asked to convict him.
Dan Wen looked at the memorial and sighed: "Young people from Japan dare to impeach me. It's really awe-inspiring."
Sima Tian was loyal, upright and talented, and the officials in the court were afraid of him.
He was moved to the post of General of the Right Guard, Si Yong, Grand Zhongzheng of the four states of Qin and Liang, paid homage to Shangshu, transferred to the post of Shizhong, and concurrently served as General of the Left Guard. He was appointed as the domestic history of Wu, and concurrently served as the Prince Zhanshi.
Sima Tian had a high reputation and talent in the clan. During the reign of Emperor Xiaowu, he relied heavily on him and appointed him as the military governor of Yan, Qing, Ji, You, Jinling in Yangzhou, and the north and south counties of Xuzhou. He was also the general of Zhenbei, the governor of Yanqing and Jiejie.
When he died in the fifteenth year of Taiyuan, he was given posthumously as a general of chariots and cavalry.
He has four sons: Shangzhi, Huizhi, Yunzhi and Xiuzhi.
Shang's heir.
Zhongwang Shangzhi's courtesy name was Bodao. He initially became a secretary-general and then moved to the rank of Sanqi-shilang.
Sima Tian guarded Jingkou and served as General Zhenwei and Prime Minister Guangling. He resigned when his father died.
After the mourning was over, he was appointed as a hussar to consult and join the army.
Within the clan, there have been outstanding figures from generation to generation.
When Wang Guobao was executed, Sanqi Changshi Liu Zhenzhi, Pengcheng Neishi Liu Juanzi, and Xuzhou Biejia Xu Fang were all arrested according to their accomplices and will be sentenced to death.
Shang Zhi said to King Daozi of Kuaiji: The punishment should not be too extensive, Zhenzhi and others should be let go.
Daozi obeyed him because all of Shang's brothers were serving in the court and relied on him whenever something happened.
Wang Gong, the governor of Yanzhou, was jealous of Shang's growing power. He and Yu Kai, the governor of Yuzhou, raised troops to attack Shangzhi and went south to join forces with Yin Zhongkan, the governor of Jingzhou, Huanxuan, the Duke of Nanjun, and others.
Daozi ordered the former general Wang Shi and the right general Xie Yan to attack Wang Gong, and Shangzhi to resist Yu Kai.
Yun Zhi fought with Yu Kai's son Yu Hong in Dangli. Yu Hong was defeated and fled, killing Yu Kai's general Duan Fang. Yu Kai fled to Huan Xuan alone on horseback.
Daozi appointed Shang Zhi as General Jianwei, Governor of Yuzhou, and Jiajie, all in accordance with Yu Kai's original positions, and soon he was promoted to General Former; he was allowed to be appointed as the domestic history of Wu; he was appointed as Hushi Sima and Danyang Yin; he was appointed as the prefect of Xiangcheng.
Each is in charge of troops and horses, and his power surpasses others in the court.
Later general Yuan Xian came to power and also relied on him as a back-up.
Yuan Xian favored Zhang Fashun, and there was no difference between sitting up and sitting down during banquets.
Shang Zhi entered the court and said to Yuan Xian with a serious face: Zhang Fashun is just an errand boy. If he has any outstanding talents, he will be promoted quickly.
In today's holy world, this shouldn't be the case.
Yuan Xian remained silent.
Shang Zhi added: Although there are many people in the clan, there are few people who can correct and advise. The emperor still accepts the opinions of the people in the grassland. What's more, I have a close blood relationship with the chief. I have been favored for several generations. How can I sit back and watch the gains and losses without speaking out.
So he scolded Bo Shu and ordered him to retreat.
Everyone in the room was surprised. Shang Zhi talked and laughed freely, but Yuan Xian held a deep grudge.
Later, Xiangfu issued a talisman and ordered two thousand warriors to be dispatched.
He refused and said: Western Fan is connected to a remote area, where enemy invaders appear and disappear, but the number of troops is only a few thousand, which is not enough to defend it, and there are no more people to send out.
Yuan Xian was particularly angry. It happened to be that he was about to attack Huan Xuan, so he did not cause any harm.
When Yuan Xian attacked the west in the name of Feng Zhao, he ordered Shang Zhi to be the vanguard, and Shang Zhi's son Wen Zhong was appointed as General Ningyuan and announced the internal history of the city.
When Danxuan arrived at Gushu, he sent Feng Gai and others to attack Liyang, cut off Dongpu and burned Shangzhi's ships.
Shang Zhi led nine thousand infantry in formation on the shore, and first sent Yang Qiu, the governor of Wudu, to garrison at Hengjiang.
Yang Qiu defected to Pan's army, but Tangzhi's army collapsed and fled for more than ten days.
Han Lian, Ding Yuan and others from Qiao State reported to Huan Xuan that Huan Xuan had Tang Zhi killed.
Danbao Shangshu believed that the king should not cut off the heirs, so he changed the title of Kangzhi, Shangzhi's cousin, to the title of King of Qiao County.
An Tong regained power, posthumously gifted General Shang Zhiwei, and allowed Xiuzhi's eldest son Wensi to succeed Shang Zhi and inherit the title of Prince Qiao.
Wen Si has a cruel and cruel personality, often violating laws and regulations and killing innocent people indiscriminately.
He likes hunting and burning other people's graves. He was picked up by relevant officials many times, so he plotted rebellion with some villains.
When Liu Yu heard about it, he killed Sai Mo's accomplices and handed Zhu Mo over to his father Baozhi, allowing him to discipline himself.
Later, he and Xiu Zhi raised an army due to grudges, but were defeated and died by Liu Yu, and the feudal state was cancelled.
Hui's courtesy name was Ji Ming, and he served successively as Commander of the Hsiao Cavalry and Danyang Yin.
Shang Zhi was killed by Huan Xuan, so he moved Hui Zhi and others to Guangzhou, but killed him on the way.
Emperor An returned to power and posthumously awarded him the title of General Fujun.
Hugh zigzag season preview.
He was appointed to an important position in the Qing Dynasty. Because of the contributions of Ping Wang Gong and Yu Kai, he was worshiped by General Longxiang and the governor of Xiangcheng, and guarded Limeng.
Huanxuan attacked Liyang and defended the city around Ti.
When Lord Shang was defeated, Ti Zhi went out of the city with 500 men to fight hard, but failed to win. So he returned to the city and took his nephews to join Murong Chao.
Hearing about the rise of the rebel army, he returned to the capital.
The general, King Wuling, issued an order: "The former General Longxiang is a man of talent, integrity and careful review, and has accomplished his feats."
In the Battle of Liyan, it all depends on being quick and resourceful.
When he was exhausted, he risked his life and ran away, but he also gathered righteous people and embarked on the rugged and dangerous journey.
Since it is in line with the behavior of being close to sages, he should be given the important task of governing Shaanxi.
He can be allowed to supervise the military affairs of the six states of Jing, Liang, Ning, Qin and Yong, and concurrently serve as the captain of the Southern Barbarians, the governor of Jingzhou, and the governor of Jingzhou.
Not long after he took office, Huan Zhen attacked Jiangling again. Xiuzhi was defeated and fled to Xiangyang.
Ning Shuo's general Zhang Changzhi and Gao Ping's prime minister Liu Huaisu attacked Huan Zhen from Mian and defeated him.
When Xiuzhi returned to his post, the censor, Cheng Wang Zhen, reported Xiuzhi's loss and was relieved of his official post.
The imperial court replaced him with Wei Yongzhi, the governor of Yuzhou, and summoned Xiuzhi back to the capital. He was given the title of General of the Empress and Internal Secretary of Kuaiji.
Yushi Zhongcheng Ruan Xinzhi reported that he and Shangshu Yu Xiaofu violated the ban and played games at the gate. He was demoted to the title of General of the Zhenglu, and soon he was restored to the title of General of the Empress.
When Lu Xun rebelled, he was appointed military commander of Shuwu County in Zhejiang Province. He was dismissed because of official crimes.
Liu Yi was executed, and he was appointed as the governor of Xiu, Jing Yong, Liang Qin Ning, Yi Liuzhou Military, Pingxi General, Jingzhou Governor, and Jiejie.
Because his son Wensi made trouble, Shangshu apologized and said: Wensi cannot do good, so he remains guilty, worried, scared, shocked, confused, regretful and ashamed.
I failed to manage the family well and failed to revive my authority and teachings, causing my sons and nephews to break the law and let down the sage's court.
I was so frightened and ashamed that I had no shame in living like this. I asked to be relieved of my post and return to the court with my guilt.
The emperor forbids it.
Later, because of resentment about Wen Si, he colluded with Lu Zongzhi, the governor of Yongzhou, and planned to kill the people in power together.
At that time, Xiuzhi's second son Wenbao and his elder brother's son Wenzu were both in the capital, and they were arrested and handed over to the Tingwei for death.
Liu Yu personally conquered Xiuzhi and sent a secret envoy to Han Yanzhi in Xiuzhi's administration, saying: "Wensi's affairs are known to everyone near and far."
The matter of sending Kang Zhi to return Sima Jun last autumn was extremely fair.
However, Xiu Zhi had no regrets and did not report to the court for a long time. This is something that heaven and earth will not tolerate.
I was ordered to march westward only to target his father and son.
The expats and locals there were driven and forced by Xiuzhi without any regard.
In previous years, Xi Sengshi, Xie Shao, Ren Jizhi and others had colluded for many years to make suggestions specifically for Liu Yi, so it ended like that.
Now you people are being persecuted for a while without any guilt.
I open my heart and look forward to everyone, for my own reasons. Now we are not far apart, and we are the sons of the sages who saved me.
If armies are approaching, weapons are clashing, and good guys and bad guys are mixed together, it may be difficult to tell them apart.
So explaining this meaning, you can also show it to like-minded people.
Yanzhi wrote back and said: I heard that you personally led the troops to the Western Region, and all the scholars and people in the territory were afraid.
Why?
The reason is that they don’t know the name of sending troops.
I felt aggrieved by your letter and began to attribute the cause to King Qiao's previous events, which only made me sigh even more.
Sima Pingxi governed the country with loyalty and treated others with sincerity.
Because you have made great achievements in correcting and restoring the country, your family and country depend on you, you admire virtue and are sincere, and you consult and look up to you in everything.
King Qiao was impeached for trivial matters in the past, and he even abdicated his throne on his own initiative. How much more would he remain silent because he was responsible for a big mistake?
It's just that there was something that Kang Zhi didn't mention before, so he sent Hu Dao again to express his thoughts. Before Hu Dao came back, Xiuzhi had already petitioned to have Wen Si abolished. This is the fate of those who do not speak clearly.
Respecting each other's hearts and minds, that's how it should be. If there's anything we can't do, we must go to war?
Ever since the flag of righteousness was raised, any local governor who dared to report directly to the emperor without consulting each other first could be said to be trying to impose a crime, so why bother?
Under Liu Yu's footsteps, no one in the country knows what you are thinking.
And if you want to deceive the scholars in the country, heaven and earth will not tolerate it, and it will not be done elsewhere.
The letter said that there is a reason for opening one's heart and expecting everyone; now the king who attacks others and using interests to seduce people can really be said to have one's own reason for opening one's heart and expecting everyone!
Liu Fan died at the gate of Yan He, and Zhuge died in the hands of his left and right people.
He deceived the local officials with sweet words and attacked them with light troops, so that there were no sincere people on the bench and no confident princes outside the city gate.
It's really shameful to think of this as a trick.
I am indeed ignorant, but I have heard about it from a gentleman.
With Ping Xi’s perfect virtue, wouldn’t there be no ministers who would devote themselves to him?
If the world is in chaos for a long time and the nine rivers are muddy, I should associate with Zang Hong underground.
Liu Yu sighed when he got the letter, showed it to the people around him, and said: This is how you should behave!
Zongzhi heard that Liu Yu sent troops to Jingzhou, and they went from Xiangyang to Xiuzhina to garrison Jiangling together.
Wensi and Zongzhi's son Sima Gui were sent to lead troops to resist Liu Yu and fight in Jiangjin.
Xiu Zhi was defeated, so he and Zong Zhi defected to Yao Xing.
Liu Yu pacified Yao Hong, and Xiu's general defected to Wei. He died on the road before he arrived.
In the fourth quarter of Yunzhi's reign, he passed to his uncle Sima Qing, inherited the title of Guangjin Bo, and served successively as the general of the auxiliary state and the internal history of Qiao and Liang in Xuancheng of Wu state.
When Wang Gong, Yu Kai, Huan Xuan and others were conquering the country, King Kuaiji ordered Yun's brothers to resist Kai, but they were defeated.
In the early years of Wuken, he and his elder brother were moved to Luzhou and were killed on the road.
The rebel army arose and he was given the posthumous title of Taichang Qing.
Cousin Chenzhi let his son Wenhui inherit the title.
After Song accepted the abdication, the feudal state was cancelled.
Han Yanzhi, named Xianzong, was from Zheyang, Nanyang, and was a descendant of Wei Situ Han Ji.
When he was young, he was known for his honor and loyalty.
At that time, Emperor An served as General Jianwei and Zhizhong of Jingzhou. He was transferred to Pingxi Prefecture to record affairs and join the army.
Because Liu Yu's father's name was Qiao, the character was Xianzong, so Yanzhi took the courtesy name Xianzong and named his son Qiao to show that he would not surrender to the Liu family.
He defected to Yao Xing with Xiuzhi.
Liu Yu entered the Pass and defected to Wei.
Sima Qing's courtesy name was King Jing, and he was initially named Guangjin Bo.
He died early and had no sons. His elder brother Sima Tian asked his son Yunzhi to inherit.
Sima Mu, King of Gaoyang, named Ziyou, was the younger brother of Sima Xun, King of Qiao.
In the Wei Dynasty, he was the Marquis of Anpingting and served successively as the imperial censor.
Emperor Wu accepted the concession and granted him the title of King of Zhongshan, granting him a fief of 5,200 households.
Sima Mu himself petitioned to build an ancestral temple according to Liu Liao's sacrifice to Gao Tao and Gao Qi's sacrifice to the prime minister.
The matter will be left to Taichang for review in accordance with etiquette.
Doctors offered wine to Liu Bang and others discussed: According to the "Book of Rites and Kingship", the princes set up five temples, two Zhao and two Mu, plus the Taizu temple, a total of five.
According to this, the temple of the ancestor is established, which refers to the inheritance of the direct line system, and one person can establish it.
If the brothers on the side branch are all princes, the first monarch who was granted the title cannot build a temple.
Nowadays, Sima Mu is not orthodox. If the ancestral temple is built, Zhongshan cannot be parallel.
Only the king of Zhongshan in later generations could build a temple for Sima Mu, as the ancestor of future generations.
The edict said: The provisions of the etiquette system are unclear. This is a major matter related to the system. It should be reviewed in detail and handed over to the etiquette officials for extensive discussion before handling the matter.
In the third year of Xianning, Sima Mu sent people to recruit more than 700 people who had migrated to eight counties in the country to accept the escape, privately owned and changed their names, and pretended to be exempted from corvee. Du You, the governor of Jizhou, reported to Sima Mu that he recruited people who were seduced and fled, and was not suitable to be the king of a country.
The relevant officials reported that the incident occurred before the amnesty and should be forgiven.
The edict said: How did King Zhongshan reach this point? Reading the memorial makes people confused.
Extensively appoint relatives, relying on them to assist the royal family on the upper side and provide favors to the people on the lower side.
Is it possible to make people violate the law just for the sake of glorifying Zhongda itself?
There should be an in-depth discussion of the pros and cons of any matter, as this is what distinguishes good things.
If it is not suitable to be the king of a country, why should we make judgments before and after the pardon order?
Sima Mu was demoted to county marquis.
So he was granted the title of Marquis of Danshui County.
After the Kingdom of Wu was pacified, Taikang issued an edict in the early years to restore his title.
The officials asked him to be crowned King of Jiangyang, and the emperor said: Sima Mu retreated to calmly think about his mistakes and re-cultivate his moral character. Now he has a title and land, not just because of the pardon.
Jiangyang was dangerous and far away, so Gaoyang County was granted to him.
So he was named King of Gaoyang.
In the first year of Yuankang, he was appointed Zongzheng.
He died in office, his eldest son Sima Wei died early, and his grandson Sima Yi succeeded to the throne.
He was promoted to Sanqi Shilang and died in Shile during the Yongjia period.
In the first year of Long'an, Shaoshu appointed Wen Shen, the son of Huizhi, the second son of Sima Tian, ​​King of Qiaojing, as Sima Yi's successor.
After five years on the throne, he died without any sons, and was succeeded by Fa Lian, the son of King Sima Chun of Gaomi.
Song accepted the abdication and the feudal state was cancelled.
Sima Ling, King of Renchengjing, whose courtesy name was Zishan, was the son of Sima Tong, the younger brother of Emperor Xuan, Wei Sili, who was the Tinghou of Ancheng.
At first, the official paid homage to Yilang.
In the first year of Taishi, he was granted the title of King of Beihai and granted 4,700 households.
In the third year, he was transferred to the title of King of City and went to Fengguo.
Xianning died in the fifth year, and his son Sima Ji succeeded to the throne.
The official title is "Sanqi Shilang", "Gei Shizhong", "Sanqi Shilang", "Sanqi Changshilang", and "auxiliary general".
Following Sima Yue, king of Shuhai, in Xiangdi, he was killed by Shi Le, and his two sons died.
He has two younger brothers: Sima Shun and Sima Bin.
Sima Shun, whose courtesy name was Zisi, was initially named the Marquis of Xiyangting.
When Emperor Wu accepted the abdication, Sima Shun sighed and said: The matter is contrary to that of Lu and Yu, and it is in the name of abdication!
So he cried sadly.
Therefore, he was deposed and moved to Guzang County, Wuwei.
Although he was punished and exiled, he persisted in his views until his death.
Sima Bin, King Mu of Xihe, whose courtesy name was Zizheng, was the Zhonglang of Wei.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and granted him the title of King Chen, granting him a fief of 1,710 households.
Three years later, it was renamed Xihe.
Xianning died in the fourth year, and his son Yinli succeeded to the throne.
When Qian dies, his son inherits the throne.
Shi Chenri: In the early years of Taishi, there were few affairs in the world. We eliminated the shortcomings left by Wei Dynasty. We followed the old rules and established the clan together as a barrier to protect the country.
Those of the father's generation have the same nobility as Yu Cui, and the brothers enjoy the blessings of Lu and Jie. They think that the generations will last forever, and the authentic side branches will be passed down from generation to generation.
Anping's demeanor is majestic and elegant, and his utensils are elegant. He promotes morality internally and demonstrates loyalty externally.
When Duke Gaogui was killed, he would lie on the body and cry bitterly. When King Chenliu went to Jinyong City, he would kneel down and say goodbye, weeping in sorrow.
As the saying goes, "The strong wind knows the strong grass", which can be used to describe King Xian.
Therefore, he can be ranked among the top ministers, enjoy a long life, and be a model of extreme beauty. He is a talented person of the Jin clan. His descendants will follow his career and be loyal to his good deeds from generation to generation.
The King of Gaomi has a quiet and unconventional style, is simple and lacks desires. He flatters his relatives with filial piety and the court with loyalty. Compared with other side clansmen, it can be said that he is the pillar of the country.
King Xincai and King Nanyang both ruled one side.
It was a time when the royal family was in trouble and the central plains were desolate and blocked. It showed loyalty and integrity and made achievements in difficult and dangerous times.
At that time, there were too many evil people, and their evil power became more and more successful day by day. There was a huge disparity in power and insufficient manpower, so they perished one after another. How sad!
King Qiao Min was brave and resourceful and guarded the south.
At a time when evil spirits were causing wanton rebellion, they raised troops to bully the imperial court.
King Qiao Min worked hard with loyalty and raised righteousness in Xiangzhou. Jing Mian responded and many talents contributed.
Although there is no meritorious service, it shows loyalty and integrity and leaves the achievements to future generations. Isn’t it gratifying that generations of people have been loyal and virtuous!
Sima Xun was entrusted with the clan and had a violent nature.
Still carrying the trust of the imperial court, he was promoted to Liang Min, so he betrayed the king of his clan, failed to live up to his kindness and abandoned his order.
Relying on the wealth of mediocrity, he concealed his dissatisfaction; relying on the solidity of the country, the treacherous plot became deeper and deeper.
Therefore, the officials gnashed their teeth and vented their long-term dissatisfaction; the righteous men worked hard and sharpened their moral integrity.
The way of heaven brings disasters to evil and pacifies them at the right time.
In the past, when Ji An was still there, King Huainan put aside his plans. If Zhou Fu were alive, Sima Xun would not dare to cause trouble. Because evil scruples integrity, the same principle applies to different dynasties.
"Poetry" says that you leave sadness to yourself, and it is Sima Xun who you are talking about.
Marquis Xiyang Ting was blessed because he was born into a royal family. He remained frugal and reclusive. He put his emotions aside from the world. He admired and followed things beyond the world. He cared about being alone. He valued the principles of being knowledgeable and ethical. He should be lucky to be famous for his words.
Praise said: King Anping established integrity and had a noble character, loyal and wise.
King Gaomi had a harmonious heart and was a celebrity in the clan.
King Xincai was killed, but his loyalty was preserved at the cost of his life.
King Qiao Min died for justice, and he spread the word with all his strength and ambition.
Sima Xun asked for trouble, and his reputation was ruined and he died.
Sima Shun had no scruples and became famous far and wide.
