Emperor Xianzong Xiaoming Mingzhuang, the fourth son of Emperor Guangwu.
His mother was Queen Yin, and Emperor Ming was born with a square face. He could read the Spring and Autumn Annals at the age of ten. Guangwu was very surprised by his talent.
In the fifteenth year of Jianwu, he was granted the title of Duke of Donghai, promoted to king in the seventeenth year, and crown prince in the nineteenth year.
He became a disciple of Dr. Huan Rong and studied Shangshu.
On the fifth day of the second lunar month in the second year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, he ascended the throne and was thirty years old.
Respect the queen as the empress dowager.
On the fifth day of the third lunar month, Emperor Guangwu was buried in the original mausoleum, and a priest named him the ancestor of the emperor.
On the 24th of April in the summer, Emperor Ming issued an edict saying: I am a young man who has inherited the great legacy of my ancestors. I am terrified day and night and dare not act casually.
The late emperor upheld the destiny of heaven and revitalized the Han Dynasty. His moral character was the same as that of the emperor. Offer sacrifices to mountains and rivers, bring peace to all gods, and bestow favors on widows and widowers.
I bear the great fortune of the country. Inheriting the political system, adhering to civility and morality, and not knowing the hardships of farming, I am only afraid of neglect and mistakes.
Our ancestors' wills warned us to cherish and respect the world and put the people first.
How will you, my ministers and your officials, assist me in my shortcomings?
Today, men in the world are given the title of nobility, each with two levels; the three elders, filial brothers, and Li Tian each have three levels. If the title is above eight levels, they can be transferred to the son or the half-brother or the son of the half-brother; as well as homeless people without household registration who want to surrender themselves, each one will be given one level; widowers, widows, orphans, alone, and terminally ill people will each be given ten dendrobium of millet.
On April 11, the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, prisoners who were released from their shackles and those who committed crimes but were arrested later will be exempted from punishment.
Before the amnesty on April 11, civilians on the border who became the wives of people from the inner county due to violence would be sent back to the border, completely subject to their own wishes.
Those who were demoted from 2,000 shi down to 200 shi, and those who paid for atonement were restored to official rank and paid back the ransom.
Now that there is no emperor above and no local governor below, it is like crossing an abyss without a boat.
The throne is very important, but I am still young and have superficial thoughts. I really rely on the guidance and help of talented people.
Deng Yu, the Marquis of Gaomi, was the most accomplished, and Liu Cang, the King of Dongping, was magnanimous, knowledgeable and resourceful, and would not give in during important events. They could all be entrusted to assist the young master in governing the world. Deng Yu is now appointed as Taifu, and Liu Cang is appointed as General of Hussars.
Taiwei Zhao Xixin announced his posthumous title to the southern suburbs, Situ Li Fanjin was entrusted with the late Emperor Zi's palace, and Sikong Feng Li general overthrew the school.
Today, Zhao Xi is granted the title of Marquis of Jiexiang, Li Fanjin is granted the title of Marquis of Anxiang, and Feng Li is granted the title of Marquis of Yangyi.
In the ninth month of autumn, the Shaodang Qiang invaded Longxi and defeated the Longxi County soldiers at Yunjie.
The prisoners in Longxi will be pardoned, their crimes reduced to one level, and they will not be charged for this year's rent transfer.
In addition, the three thousand people from Tianshui who were recruited were exempted from the tax for this year. Zhang Hong was sent to Yunwu to attack the rebellious Qiang. Zhang Hong's army was defeated and Zhang Hong was killed.
In November of winter, he sent General Dou Gu to supervise the captured general Ma Wu and other two generals to attack the Shaodang Qiang.
On December 26, Emperor Ming issued an edict: It is spring now, and people are busy plowing the fields and raising silkworms.
All officials must comply with the solar terms and not interfere with agricultural work.
The desperadoes in the world were sentenced to beheading or less, and they were asked to atone for their sins: for the crime of death, twenty pieces of steel were cut off, and then the right foot was cut off until it reached the edge of the city, and ten pieces of steel were put into it.
Didn't realize that those who surrendered before the edict was issued would have their redemption items halved.
Nowadays, the election is not real, and the evil and sycophants have not been removed. The powerful are bribed and cruel, and the officials are greedy and do whatever they want. The people are miserable and complain, and there is no way to report the truth. The relevant government officials should clearly report the crime and punish those who recommend improperly.
Every time the counties and counties imposed labor levies, they easily made profits, deceitfully scolded and intimidated the poor and weak civilians, and made them anxious.
Now it is necessary to make the labor even and not unjust.
In the first month of the spring of the first year of Yongping, Emperor Ming led officials below the public minister to pay homage to the original mausoleum, just like the Yuan Hui ceremony.
In the fifth month of summer, Taifu Deng Yu passed away.
On the 22nd, Liu Qiang, the king of the East China Sea, passed away. He sent Sikong Fenggui to hold the talisman festival to watch the funeral, and rewarded him with a rising dragon head, a ruan, and a dragon flag.
On June 24, Prince Gong of Donghai was buried.
In the seventh month of autumn, the captured general Ma Wu and others fought against the Shaodang Qiang, and the Qiang were defeated.
Soldiers were recruited to guard Longyou, and each man was rewarded with 30,000 yuan.
On the fourth day of August, King Liu Jing of Shanyang was transferred to King Guangling and ordered to enter the fiefdom.
In this year, the governor of Liaodong sacrificed to Xianbei and attacked Wuhuan in Chishan. He defeated Wuhuan and beheaded his commander-in-chief.
Yuegu Fuyi rebelled, and the state and county troops attacked and put down the rebellion.
On the 19th day of the first lunar month in the second year of spring, Emperor Guangwu was worshiped in Mingtang. The Emperor Ming and his ministers and princes began to wear crowns, clothes, jade pendants, and colorful robes for the ceremony.
After the salute, he ascended to the mourning platform.
The minister was sent to hold the Fujie edict and ordered the Hussar General and Sangong to say: On this auspicious day, we will sacrifice Emperor Guangwu in the Mingtang to be worthy of the Five Emperors.
Preparing ritual objects, music and music, singing about blessings, dancing to show merit, announcing the seasons, and admonishing the queen.
After the ceremony, go up to the spiritual platform, look at the clouds, play wind instruments, and observe the changes in things.
Hundreds of officials, vassal assistants, descendants of the clan, officials from prefectures and counties, and barbarian leaders Wuhuan and Sui Suiyu all came to assist in the ceremony. The Xiongnu Chanyu served the son of the Han Palace, and the Marquis of Gudu also came to attend the ceremony.
This was the power inspired by the merits of the Holy Ancestor that brought them together.
I am dim and humble, but I have accumulated great achievements. I personally hold Wang Guibi and offer sacrifices to heaven and earth.
In memory of the late emperor who was resurrected by destiny, he brought order out of chaos, brought peace and happiness to the world, enshrined Mount Tai, built Mingtang, erected a memorial hall, and set up a spiritual platform, so as to carry forward the cause of building a country and loving the people.
Grace spreads all over the earth. But I don't have the talent of King Cheng and King Kang of the Zhou Dynasty, and the ministers don't have the same strategies as Lu Shang and Ji Dan. With a humble nature, he becomes even more frightened when big events happen. Therefore, it is said: A graceful and generous gentleman is always calm and comfortable, while a villain who can't pretend to be troublesome is always worried. We now order the whole country to be exempted from punishment, from those sentenced to beheading to those who conspire to rebel and commit treason.
All officials must handle their duties diligently and carefully, comply with the seasons, respect heaven, and enable hundreds of millions of people to live a happy life.
In March, Emperor Ming came to Piyong and held the great shooting ceremony for the first time.
In the ninth month of autumn, King Liu Fu of Pei, King Liu Ying of Chu, King Liu Kang of Jinan, King Liu Yan of Huaiyang, and King Liu Zheng of Donghai came to pay homage.
On the fifth day of the tenth lunar month in winter, Emperor Ming came to Piyong and held a pension ceremony for the first time.
The edict said: Emperor Guangwu built Mingtang, Piyong, and Lingtai as gifts for three dynasties, but he did not have time to reward and entertain the elders.
I, the insignificant one, inherit the throne.
Taking advantage of the good time of March in late spring, I performed the great shooting ceremony at the beginning, and on the beautiful first day of October, I went to Piyong again.
Respect the three elders, take care of the five brothers, install the soft wheel of the car, and personally hold the sash.
When the princes and kings set up the gravy, and the ministers set out the delicacies, I would personally cut off my legs with my sleeves exposed, hold a wine glass, and rinse the old man's mouth.
Afraid that the old man would choke, he beat his back back and forth. He sang "Deer Ming" at the top and "New Palace" at the bottom. Eight hundred people lined up and ten thousand people danced in the court.
I know very well that I have little virtue, how dare I act like that?
"Yi" says that a villain who wears a gentleman's utensils will become a thief. "Poetry" also satirizes those who illegally make and use utensils. They will always feel guilty and remember this in their hearts.
The third elder, Li Gong, is a man of advanced learning.
At five o'clock in the morning, Huan Rong taught me Shangshu.
"The Book of Songs" says: No virtue will not be repaid, no words will not be rewarded.
Huan Rong is now granted the title of Marquis in Guannei and has a settlement of 5,000 households.
The third elder and the fifth elder all receive a salary of two thousand dan for life.
Today, the three elders in the world are given a stone of wine and forty pounds of meat each. The officials should greet and comfort the elderly, show mercy to the young orphans, and benefit the widows and widowers. This is in line with my wishes.
Liu Yan, the king of Zhongshan, began to go to his fiefdom.
On the 17th, Emperor Ming inspected the west and went to Chang'an to worship Gaodi Temple and the Eleven Tombs.
Visit the guest houses, summon county and county officials, offer condolences and entertainment.
On the seventh day of the eleventh month, envoys were sent to sacrifice pigs and sheep to Xiao He and Huo Guang.
Emperor Ming visited the cemetery and paid tribute to the tomb.
Marching to the east of Hedong, the county magistrates, county magistrates and officials below were rewarded with two thousand stones in the places they passed.
On the 26th, Emperor Ming returned to Luoyang.
In December, Dou Lin, the captain who protected Qiang, was imprisoned and died.
This year, for the first time, there is a sign of good fortune in the five suburbs.
Yin Feng, the son of Shaofu Yin Jiu, killed his wife, Princess Li Yi, and Yin Jiu committed suicide.
On the seventeenth day of the first lunar month in the third year of spring, Emperor Ming issued an edict: "I will perform sacrifices in the suburbs, go to the spiritual platform, summon the Taishi who is in charge of astronomy, and set the astronomical instruments in order."
Spring is the beginning of the year. If the beginning is right, there will be harvests in spring, summer and autumn.
Recently, floods and droughts have occurred from time to time, and people in the border areas have had little food. If the political affairs above are improper, the people will suffer. All officials should diligently comply with the seasons, advise and supervise the cultivation of mulberry trees, and eliminate pests. When sentencing and punishing, we must be careful and cautious, and do not listen to partial beliefs. Do not be lazy at all day or night, so as to fulfill my wish.
On the ninth day of February, Taiwei Zhao Xi and Situ Li Fanjin were dismissed from their posts.
On the 11th, Zuo Fengyi and Guo Dan were appointed as Situ.
On the 14th, Yu Yan, the governor of Nanyang, was appointed as the Taiwei.
On the 19th, the noble Ma family was made the queen, and the prince Liu Huodan was made the crown prince.
The men in the world will be rewarded with a second-level title; each of the three elders, filial brothers, and Litian will be given a third-level title; each homeless person without a registered permanent residence will be given a first-level title; those who are widowed, widowed, lonely, alone, terminally ill, and too poor to survive will be given five dendrobiums of millet.
On the 17th day of April in the summer, the prince Liu Jian was granted the title of King Qiancheng, and Liu Xian was named the King of Guangping.
On June 24, a comet appeared in the north of the Sky Ship Star.
On the 25th day of the eighth lunar month in autumn, the great music was changed to the great music.
On the 29th, there was a solar eclipse. Emperor Ming issued an edict: I inherited the ancestral business without good governance.
The sun and the moon are close to eclipsing each other, comets appear in the sky, floods and droughts occur from time to time, food harvests fail, the people do not have enough food for the night, and sorrow gathers below.
Although I think hard day and night, I am not smart enough.
In the past, during the reign of King Zhuang of Chu, there were no disasters in heaven and earth. He was cautious and fearful, and prayed more than heaven. Duke Ai of Lu was in great trouble, and God would not punish him.
It is hoped that the current strange changes can be saved.
All officials should work hard to do their jobs well and save me from my immorality. In ancient times, officials, officials and scholars wrote poems and allegories, and learned from the proverbs and admonitions of hundreds of scholars.
If the ministers have something to discuss and criticize, don't be shy about it.
In the tenth month of winter, at the Winter Festival at Guangwu Temple, dances of "Wenshi", "Five Elements" and "Wude" began.
On the 22nd, Emperor Ming went from the Empress Dowager to Zhangling to inspect the old residence.
On December 27, he returned to Luoyang from Zhangling.
In this year, the North Palace and various government offices were built.
There were seven floods in the capital and prefectures.
On the 11th day of the second month in the spring of the fourth year, Emperor Ming issued an edict: I personally plow the fields and pay homage to the ancestors, hoping for a good harvest.
There was no heavy snowfall in the capital in the winter, and there was no warmth and moisture in the spring. Officials in various departments were troubled and prayed for.
Fortunately, there have been timely rains recently, and the wheat fields are moist. Now I will reward the minister with half his salary.
All officials strive to do a good job in current affairs and must punish justice fairly.
On the twelfth day of the ninth month of autumn, Liu Jian, the king of Qiancheng, passed away.
On October 19th in winter, Situ Guodan and Sikong Fengli were dismissed from their posts.
On the 20th, Yin Fanqian of Henan was appointed as Situ, but his servant Fugong was empty.
In December, Hou Liangsong of Lingxiang was imprisoned and died.
On the 16th day of the second month in the spring of the fifth year, the hussar general Liu Cang, king of Dongping, was deposed and returned to the feudal vassal; Liu Jing, the king of Langyi, entered the fiefdom.
In the tenth month of winter, Emperor Ming went to Ye County and met with King Zhao Liu Xu in Ye County.
The three elders of Changshan said to Emperor Ming: The Emperor was born in Yuanshi, and he requested preferential treatment and tax exemptions here. Emperor Ming issued an edict saying: Feng, Pei, and Jiyang are the places where the ancestors ordered the establishment of the imperial industry. It is very appropriate to repay kindness with kindness.
The people are dissatisfied with the current political affairs in Yongping, and officials are demanding exemption from taxes, which makes people laugh.
It is difficult to violate the diligence and sincerity of the three elders of this county. We are now exempting Yuanshi County from land rent and tax for six years, and are rewarding the county governor and gatekeepers respectively. Emperor Ming returned from Ye to Luoyang.
In November, the northern Xiongnu invaded Wuyuan, and in December they invaded Yunzhong, but the southern Shanyu drove them back.
This year, the people on the border were sent back to the inland counties and counties, and each person was rewarded with 20,000 yuan as a decoration fee.
In the first month of the spring of the sixth year, King Liu Fu of Pei, King Liu Ying of Chu, King Liu Cang of Dongping, King Liu Yan of Huaiyang, King Liu Jing of Langfu, King Liu Zheng of Donghai, King Liu Xu of Zhao, King Liu Xing of Beihai, and King Liu Shi of Qi came to Beijing to pay homage.
In February, Wang Luoshan produced a treasure tripod and the prefect of Lujiang presented it to him.
In the fourth month of the summer, Emperor Ming issued an edict: In the past, Xia Yu collected metals from the shepherds of Kyushu, cast tripods and shaped them into the shapes of ghosts and gods, so that people could know about the gods and ghosts and walk into the mountains, forests and rivers without encountering ghosts.
The tripod appeared when a virtuous king came, so it was passed down to the Shang and Zhou Dynasties. When Zhou virtue declined, the tripod also sank into the Si River.
The appearance of auspicious things is virtuous.
Nowadays, political education is not prosperous, so why is there a precious tripod?
The "Book of Changes" says that the tripod is the symbol of the Three Gongs. Maybe it is because the Gongqing performs his duties very appropriately, right?
On the day of the Summer Festival, Taichang placed the tripod in the ancestral temple for preparation.
The three princes were given fifty pieces of silk, and the nine ministers were given two thousand stones and twenty-five pieces.
The late emperor's edict forbade people to submit letters to say things and praise them as saints. However, some recent chapters contain a lot of exaggerated words. From now on, if there are any excessive epithets and flattering words, the ministers should suppress them without reading them. It means not being ridiculed by flatterers.
In the tenth month of winter, Emperor Ming went to Lu to pay homage to the Tomb of Prince Gong of Donghai; he met with King Liu Fu of Pei, King Liu Ying of Chu, King Liu Kang of Luonan, King Liu Cang of Dongping, King Liu Yan of Huaiyang, King Liu Jing of Langyi, and King Liu Zheng of Donghai.
In December, Emperor Ming returned to Yangcheng and sent envoys to worship Zhongyue Songshan.
On the 24th, returned to Luoyang.
Liu Cang, the king of Dongping, and Liu Jing, the king of Langfu, followed the emperor into the palace to pay homage to the empress dowager.
On the 20th day of the first lunar month in the seventh year of spring, Empress Dowager Yin passed away.
On the eighth day of February, Empress Guanglie was buried.
On August 18 in autumn, Liu Xing, King of Beihai, passed away.
This year, the Northern Huns sent envoys to ask for peace.
On the second day of the first lunar month in the eighth year of spring, Situ Fan Qian passed away.
In the third month of Xinmao, Taiwei Yu Yan was appointed as Situ. Wei Wei Zhao Xi acted as Taiwei.
The Yue Cavalry Sima Zheng Zhong was sent to pay a return visit to the Northern Huns.
General Du Liao was established and stationed at Manbai in Wuyuan.
In autumn, it rains fourteen times in the county.
In October of winter, the North Palace was completed.
On the fourth day of the Lunar New Year, Emperor Ming came to Piyong and enjoyed wine and food with the three elders and the fifth watch.
After the ceremony, he ordered the three public officials to recruit all the officials in the county and state to announce that all prisoners under death row would have their sentences reduced to one level and would not be beaten. They would be sent to General Du Liao's barracks to colonize the border counties of Shuofang and Wuyuan. If his wife voluntarily accompanied him, it would count as a border county household registration. Parents, brothers and sisters who wanted to replace him would be allowed to do so.
Among them, those who were treasonous and unethical and had to be beheaded were all sent to the Jamsil room to be punished by corruption.
The escaped criminals redeemed their sins separately. Anyone who migrates will be rewarded with crossbows, clothing and food rations.
On the 30th, there was a total solar eclipse.
Emperor Ming issued an edict: Because of my bad virtue, I inherited the great cause, causing resentment to the people below, and shaking the sun, moon and stars above.
The accident of solar eclipse is the greatest disaster, so the prophecy in "Spring and Autumn" considers it as a great condemnation.
I reflected for a long time that the fault was solely my fault.
All officials strive to do their jobs well and criticize political affairs as much as possible without taboos. As a result, officials in office wrote letters one after another, expressing their political gains and losses.
Emperor Ming felt deeply guilty after reading these memorials. The opinions put forward in the petition were then announced to all officials.
The edict said: What the officials said was all my fault. People's grievances were not redressed; officials were insidious and mean and unstoppable; they easily wasted people and money, repaired palaces, had no control over their comings and goings, and could not control their joy and anger.
In the past, when people were in charge of the desolate government, the sage sang "Guan Ju" to satirize; his mind was as uneasy as a flying pod, and Wei Zi sighed.
Reading these warnings aloud, I can't help but feel the hair on my bones and tremble with fear.
I'm afraid that if I have bad virtue, I will become lazy over time!
The Northern Xiongnu entered the Kouxi River counties.
On the first day of the third month in the spring of the ninth year, an order was issued to reduce the sentences of prisoners convicted of death row crimes in the county, and to settle down with their wives and children in Wuyuan and Shuofang. Those who died there would be rewarded with the wife, father or brother, free of tax for life; if the wife had no father or brother but only a mother, the mother would be rewarded with 60,000 yuan, and her population tax would be exempted.
On the first day of the fourth month of summer, the county was ordered to use public land to reward the poor.
The commander-in-chief, the captain of the school, and the governor of the department are ordered to report every year to the chief official Mo Shou who has been in charge for more than three years, as well as one person who has particularly outstanding reasons, the same as the planner.
Even those who are bad at managing politics should be reported to the police.
This year, there was a good harvest, and a school was opened for the children of the four surnames of the relatives: Fan, Guo, Yin, and Ma, and a "Five Classics" teacher was set up.
In the spring and February of the tenth year, Liu Jing, the king of Guangling, committed suicide and the feudal state was removed.
On the 24th of April in the summer, Emperor Ming issued an edict saying: Last year the grain was abundant, this year the silkworms and wheat are good, and the world is amnesty.
Now is a good time for all things to grow in midsummer, and all unfavorable factors should be eliminated to benefit farming.
The common people should work hard to cultivate crops and prevent floods, droughts and insect disasters.
Officials should do their jobs well and not commit crimes or degenerate.
On the third day of the leap October, Emperor Ming made an inspection tour to the south. Go to Nanyang to worship Zhang Ling.
On the summer solstice, worship the old residence.
After the ceremony, the school directors and disciples were called together to play elegant music and sing the poem "The Deer Ming". Emperor Ming himself played the Xun Chi to harmonize with everyone.
When he returned, he went to Nandun and entertained the three elders and officials' relatives with wine and food.
In the eleventh month of winter, Liu Yan, king of Huaiyang, was summoned to meet at Pingyu, and Liu Fu, king of Pei, was summoned to meet at Suiyang.
On the fourth day of December, Emperor Ming returned to Luoyang.
In the first month of the spring of the eleventh year, King Liu Fu of Pei, King Liu Ying of Chu, King Liu Kang of Jinan, King Liu Cang of Dongping, King Liu Yan of Huaiyang, King Liu Yan of Zhongshan, King Liu Jing of Langfu, and King Liu Zheng of Donghai came to Beijing to pay homage.
In the seventh month of autumn, Sili captain Guo Ba was imprisoned and died.
This year, gold appeared in Chaohu Lake, and the governor of Lujiang presented gold.
At that time, Qilin, White Pheasant, Liquan, and Jiahe appeared everywhere.
In the first month of the spring of the twelfth year, King Yi Ailao from outside Yizhou led all the tribes to return to the interior, so Yongchang County was established and the western captain of Yizhou was eliminated.
In the fourth month of summer, Wang Wu, the general who served as a visitor, was sent to repair the Bian Canal and arrived at Qiancheng Haikou from Xingyang.
On the fourth day of the fifth lunar month, men in the world will be rewarded with a title of two degrees, each of the three elders, filial brothers, and Litian will be given a third grade; each homeless person will be given a first grade; each person who is a widower, widowed, lonely, alone, terminally ill, poor, and homeless will be given three dendrobiums of millet.
The edict said: In the past, Zengzi and Minzi served their parents and did their best to support them; Confucius buried his son with a coffin but no coffin.
The important thing in holding a funeral is to express grief, and the etiquette is to lay down a peaceful and frugal person.
At present, the way people pay their last respects is more ostentatious than lavish.
As a result, the living people had no money to save, and all their financial resources were spent on funeral expenses.
During the twelfth and winter days, there is no food for chaff, but pigs and sheep are used as a funeral offering.
The savings of past generations were wasted in one morning, the descendants were hungry and cold, and their fate was ruined. Is this the wish of the ancestors?
There are also carriages, horses and clothing, so you can be extravagant.
The fields are deserted and there are many idle people.
Government officials at all levels should declare various laws and prohibitions that apply today and declare them to the county and state for implementation.
On the twenty-fourth day of the seventh month in autumn, Sikong Fugong was dismissed from his post.
In Yiwei, the great minister Nong Mourong was appointed as Sikong.
In the tenth month of winter, Wang Kang, the captain of Sili School, was imprisoned and died.
In this year, the world was stable, there was no corvee, the harvest was good, the people were prosperous, corn was only thirty cents per husk, and cattle and sheep were everywhere.
In the spring and February of the thirteenth year, Emperor Ming plowed the fields.
After the ceremony, the spectators are given wine and food.
In March, Yin Xuezhao of Henan was imprisoned and died.
In April of summer, the repair of Bianqu was completed.
On the fourth day of the Lunar New Year, Emperor Ming went to Xingyang to inspect the rivers and canals.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, the edict said: It has been more than 60 years since the Bianqu canal was destroyed. In recent years, the rains have not stopped and the Bianshui flows eastward, and the erosion has become more serious day by day. The original water gates are all in the river, and they are so vague that you can't see the edge. It is so surging that I don't know how to manage it.
Nowadays, the residents of Yan and Henan are often affected by floods. They all say that the county officials do not pay attention to the residents' urgent needs in advance and only make the people do other labor.
Some people think that the Yellow River flows into Bianshui River, benefiting Youzhou and Jizhou. Therefore, if the left embankment is strong, the right embankment will be injured, and if both the left and right embankments are strong, the lower part will be injured. They should follow the flow of the water, so that residents can live on high ground. The government can save the cost of intercepting and blocking the flow of water, and the people do not have to worry about drowning.
The discussions were different and the North and the South were in conflict. I couldn't make up my mind and it remained undecided for a long time.
Embankments have been built to manage the canals, water has been cut off and gates have been erected, the Yellow River and Bianshui have been diverted, and the old paths have been restored. To the north of Tao Qiu, Pyongyang soil mounds have gradually formed, so Jiayu Jie sacrifices are recommended to worship the gods of the Yellow River.
Passing the Luoshui River in the east and entering the Yellow River, I admired Emperor Yu's achievements.
Now the five original soils of mountains, forests, rivers, hills, and tombs are suitable for each other, and the nature of the soil has been restored. The lower fields close to the canal should be handed over to the poor, and the powerful should not be allowed to monopolize the benefits. I hope that I can inherit the legacy of King Sejong and be comparable to the great cause of Saihuzi crossing the river.
So he crossed the Yellow River, climbed the Taihang Mountains, and marched to Shangdang.
On the 25th, Emperor Ming returned to Luoyang.
In winter, October, Renchen day, there is a solar eclipse. San Gong took off his hat and self-examined his mistakes.
Emperor Ming ordered: You officials should not impeach yourself.
Disasters happen frequently, and the fault lies with me. I feel anxious and uneasy, and I don’t know what to do.
Could it be that when the officials reported the situation, they kept taboos and concealed it, which blocked my ears and eyes, preventing the following things from being communicated smoothly?
In the past, Wei Linggong was unprincipled, but thanks to his loyal minister Kuang Fu, he was able to keep his position. How can we and Mu Yin Yang eliminate the disaster now?
The governor and prefect should carefully examine criminal cases, sort out unjust cases, express condolences and care for widowers, widows, orphans, and singles, and try their best to do their jobs well.
In November, King Liu Ying of Chu rebelled, deposed his throne, revoked the feudal state, and moved to Jing County. Thousands of people died in connection with this and were exiled.
This year, King Liu Shi of Qi passed away.
On the third day of March in the spring of the fourteenth year, Situ Yuyan was dismissed from his post and committed suicide.
On the 16th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, Xing Mu from Nanyang was appointed as Situ, the prefect of Julu.
Former Chu King Liu Ying committed suicide.
In the fifth month of summer, Liu Jingzi and Liu Yuanshou, the deceased king of Guangling, were granted the title of Marquis of Guangling.
Construction of Shouling began.
On the fourth day of the second lunar month in the spring of the fifteenth year, Emperor Ming made an inspection tour eastward.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, I arrived in Yanshi. The edict ordered the desperadoes to atone for their crimes by beheading them: forty pieces of horses were tied up for the death penalty, ten pieces of horses were pounded once the feet were cut off at Kunqiang City, and five pieces of horses were pounded as soon as the city was completed. The crime was not discovered, and half of those who surrendered on the day of the edict were redeemed.
The king of Pei, Liu Fu, was recruited to meet in Suiyang.
March to Pengcheng.
On the 27th, Emperor Ming plowed in Xiapi.
In March, Liu Jing, the king of Langfu, was summoned to meet in Liangcheng, Liu Cang, king of Dongping, was summoned to meet in Yangdu, and the Marquis of Guangling and his third brother were summoned to meet in Lu.
Worship the Tomb of Prince Gong in the East China Sea.
When he returned to Beijing, he went to Confucius's house to worship Confucius and his seventy-two disciples.
He went to the lecture hall in person and asked the crown prince and the kings to explain the meaning of the scriptures.
Arrive at Dongping again.
Xin Mao marched to Daliang and Dingtao to worship at the tomb of Prince Gong in Dingtao.
In April of Xia Gengzi, Emperor Ming returned to Luoyang.
Those who converted to Christianity became the Lecheng Kingdom, and Linhuai became the Xiapi Kingdom.
The prince Liu Gong was named King of Julu, Liu Dang was named King of Success, Liu Yan was named King of Xiapi, Liu Chang was named King of Runan, Liu Ribing was named King of Changshan, and Liu Chang was named King of Jiyin.
Reward the men of the world with three levels of nobility; one hundred pieces of silk for men and officials over the age of twenty, twenty pieces for those over ten years old, ten pieces for those under ten years old, five pieces for government officials, and three pieces for Shu Zuo and Xiao Shi.
Order the world to gather together and drink freely for five days.
On the Yisi day, a general amnesty will be granted to the whole world. Those who commit treason and other crimes that should not be forgiven will be pardoned.
In winter, the riding school goes to Linyuan for hunting.
In December, Dou Gu, the commander of chariots, and Geng Bing, the commander of consorts, were sent to garrison Liangzhou.
In the spring and February of the 16th year, the imperial servant was sent to sacrifice Xi out of Gaoque, the captain of Fengcha, Dou Gu, came out of Jiuquan, the captain of Prince Consort, Geng Bing, came out of Juyan, and the captain of cavalry came to Miao and came out of Pingcheng to attack the Northern Xiongnu. Dou Gu defeated King Huyan in Tianshan and left troops to garrison Yiwulu City.
Geng Bing, Lai Miao, and Ji Xu all returned without success.
In the fifth month of summer, Liu Yan, the king of Huaiyang, rebelled and was discovered.
On the 25th, Situ Xingmu and Prince Consort Han Guang were imprisoned and died, and many others were killed.
On the 30th, there was a solar eclipse.
The eighth day of June. Liu Min, the king of Nongxihe, was appointed as Situ.
In the seventh month of autumn, King Liu Yan of Huaiyang moved and was granted the title of King of Fuling.
On Dingmao Day in the ninth month, the imperial edict was issued to all the officials in the prefecture and state to reduce the penalty of death to death by one level and not to be beaten. They were sent to the military camp to colonize Shuofang and Dunhuang. Their wives and children followed them, and brothers who wanted to go with them could do as they wished. If a woman was already married, she should not go with her. It was a treason and treason, so this edict did not apply.
In this year, the Northern Xiongnu invaded Yunzhong, and Lian Fan, the prefect of Yunzhong, defeated him.
In the first month of the spring of the seventeenth year, Ganling fell and it rained promptly.
Liu Mu, King of Beihai, passed away.
On Yisi day in February, Situ Wang Min passed away.
On March 29, Bao Yu, the governor of Runan, was appointed as Situ.
This year, there were continuous and timely rains, the trees grew with branches, the grass grew in front of the palace, and the five-colored sparrows gathered in the capital.
The Ailao, Dan'er, Ruhui, Mu, Bai, and Dongnian ethnic groups of the southwestern barbarians paid tribute to each other; all the countries in the Western Regions sent their sons to serve in the court.
On the fifth day of the fifth lunar month in the summer, the officials and officials gathered in the court hall to celebrate their birthdays with the imperial majesty and virtue, and the mascots appeared in response.
Emperor Ming ordered: "The gods are born to respond to the king; people from afar admire and educate them, it is really because the court is virtuous."
How can I enjoy such a good reputation if I am empty and virtuous?
Only Gaozu and Guangwu were highly respected and enlightened the world, and they had nothing to say.
We raised our wine glasses in a pious manner and often chose an auspicious day to inform the ancestral temple.
The title of nobility is awarded to men in the world, with two levels for each person, three levels for each of the three elders, filial brothers, and Li Tian, ​​one level for each person who has no household registration and wants to return home; widows, widows, orphans, alone, terminally ill, and too poor to live, each person will be given three grains of dendrobium; Lang, who has served as an official for more than ten years, will be given ten bolts of silk.
Those who win 2,000 dan, 2,000 dan to Huang Shou, are demoted and pay for atonement will have all their ransoms refunded since last year.
On the 15th day of the eighth month of autumn, the order was given to the vassal states of Wuwei, Zhangye, Jiuquan, Dunhuang and Zhangye. If the prisoners who had cut off their right feet were still able to serve as soldiers, they would not be punished and sent to the military camp.
In the eleventh month of winter, he sent the chariot captain Dou Gu, the consort captain Geng Bing, and the cavalry captain Liu Zhang out of Dunhuang Kunlun Fortress, defeated the Baishan Hulu on the Pulei Sea, and entered the chariot division.
The Protectorate of the Western Regions and the Wuji School Captain were established.
This year, Tianshui was renamed Hanyang County.
In the spring of March 18th, Dinghai, the edict said: The outlaws in the world are ordered to behead themselves and atone for their sins as follows: for the death penalty, thirty horses will be tied, and ten horses will be chopped off after the right foot is reached at Kunniang City, and five horses will be pounded by the Sikou once the city is completed. Those who commit crimes without being discovered by the officials and surrender under the imperial edict will receive half of the atonement.
On April 11th in summer, the edict said: Since the beginning of spring, the rain has not fallen, the wheat planted last year has dried up, the crops for the autumn harvest cannot be planted, and there are deviations in political affairs. I am only worried and fearful.
The men in the world will be rewarded with a second-level title, and each homeless person without household registration will be given a first-level title. Those who are widowed, widowed, lonely, alone, terminally ill, and too poor to live will be given three dendrobiums of millet.
Rehabilitate unjust and false cases, and release those who have been imprisoned for misdemeanors.
Two thousand stones were used to pray to the five mountains and four mountains.
There are famous mountains and rivers in the county that can stir up clouds and cause rain. The officials clean their vessels, fast and pray, hoping for timely rain and the growth of all things.
On June 12, the comet appeared in the Taiwei Star Palace.
Yanqi and Qiuci attacked Chen Mu, the protector of the Western Regions, and Chen Mu's entire army was destroyed.
The Northern Xiongnu and the Cheshi Houwang surrounded Wuji Colonel Geng Gong.
On the sixth day of the eighth lunar month in autumn, the emperor passed away in the front hall of the East Palace at the age of forty-eight.
According to the imperial edict, there is no room for sleeping in the temple, and the main tablet of the Tibetan God is located in the dressing room of Queen Guanglie.
When Emperor Ming first built the Shouling Mausoleum, he ordered that as long as water could be dispersed, the stone coffin would be one foot two feet wide and two feet five feet long, and no graves would be raised.
After ten thousand years, it will be enough to sweep the ground and offer sacrifices to the people, such as harvesting water and poultry.
After a hundred days, as long as there are four seasons of worship, a few officials and soldiers will be provided to sweep and sweep, and no monastery will be opened.
Those who dare to do something creative will be judged guilty for being good at discussing the ancestral and temple laws.
The emperor followed the system of the Jianwu era and no one dared to disobey it.
The family of a foreign relative is not allowed to become a marquis and participate in politics.
Princess Guantao, a martial arts girl, asked for the official position of a man for her son. Emperor Ming did not agree, but gave her tens of millions of money.
He said to the ministers: The official is responsible for the stars in the sky and governs hundreds of miles. If the person is not chosen properly, the people will suffer, so it cannot be approved. Therefore, during the Ming Dynasty, officials were competent, the people were safe in their jobs, people from far and near were convinced, and the registered population increased a lot.
Historians commented: Emperor Ming was good at criminal proceedings and had clear laws. With Riyan in office, all unjust and unclear issues could be dealt with.
There is no fluke and favoritism inside and outside, and there is no arrogant and showy air at the top.
The conclusion of the case is reasonable and the case is said to be only two-tenths of the previous case.
Therefore, everyone who praised things well done later praised Jianwu Yongping's government.
However, Zhong Liyi, Song Jun and others were often dissatisfied because Emperor Ming looked down on Minghui. Could it be that Hong Ren was not tolerant?
