Emperor Suzong Xiaozhang was named Huodan and was the fifth son of Xianzong.
His mother, Jia Guiren, was established as the crown prince in the third year of Yongping.
He was young and tolerant, loved Confucianism, and was highly valued by Xianzong.
On the sixth day of August in the eighteenth year of Yongping, he became emperor. At the age of nineteen, he honored the queen as the empress dowager.
On the 16th, Emperor Xiaoming was buried in Xianjie Mausoleum.
On the second day of October in winter, there is a general amnesty.
The title of nobility is awarded to men in the world, with a second level for each person, a third level for each person who is a father, a filial brother, and Li Tian, ​​and a first level for each person who has no household registration in exile and wants to return. The title can be transferred to his son or brother's son if he has passed the public title. Those who are widowed, widowed, lonely, alone, terminally ill, or too poor to live will be given three husks of dendrobium millet each.
The edict said: I am small and weak in virtue. I am above the princes and in charge of everything. I am afraid of being biased and making mistakes. I am conscientious in my work and do not know how to do it well.
I know very well that a monarch who abides by the law must build an official like a master.
Isn’t it said in the Book of Songs? When he became a king, he did not make any mistakes or violate any laws, because he followed the old rules and regulations of Zhou Gong.
Zhao, the Marquis of Jiexiang, who acted as the agent for the Taiwei, had served as an official for three dynasties and was a veteran of the country; Sikong Mourong, who had been in office for six years, was diligent and diligent.
Now Zhao is appointed as Taifu, Mou Rong is appointed as Taiwei, and he is also in charge of the secretarial affairs. Doctor Sangong was unconscious at dawn and dusk. Xiaoya thought it was wrong.
When the king makes mistakes, his subordinates should correct them and not be submissive. The principle stated in "Shang Shu Yi Ji" is the legitimate principle of the country.
All ministers and officials should do their jobs well and support me with their loyalty.
Now I understand that I am sending orders to all directions, hoping to fulfill my wishes.
On November 24, Wu Lun, the prefect of Shu County, was appointed Sikong.
General Geng Bing was ordered to garrison Jiuquan, and Duan Peng, the prefect of Jiuquan, was ordered to rescue Geng Gong, the captain of Wuji School.
On the 30th, dusk, solar eclipse.
So Emperor Zhang avoided the main hall, stopped fighting, and did not go to court for five days.
Officials from various ministries were ordered to write a seal on the government's affairs and make criticisms and suggestions.
On December 20, the relevant departments reported: Emperor Xiaoming had a simple and noble virtue, worked hard all day long, wore dirty clothes, and had no taste for food.
His kindness spread to all directions, and people from far away admired his righteousness and enlightenment. Xuan fluke, Dan Er, Tonghao returns.
He defeated the ghosts and developed the Western Regions, and his reputation spread far and wide, and no one was dissatisfied.
Worry about the lives of the common people and do not take pleasure in ruling the world.
Complete the teachings of Sanyong and practice the ritual of caring for the elderly.
He sings in the hall, dances and plays eight hundred people, is proficient in the six arts, does not rest day and night, and is wise and far-reaching, as shown in the prophecy.
The sense of supreme virtue is connected with the gods.
His great achievements have illuminated the world, and his benevolence has been passed down for thousands of years.
But he was always modest, claiming to be immoral, not being able to sleep in the temple, sweeping the floor to offer sacrifices, exempting himself from the system of daily sacrifices, omitting the etiquette of farewell, and hiding the spiritual tablets of the gods in Queen Guanglie's dressing room.
When people all over the world heard about it, they were all devastated.
The emperor is extremely filial, honest and honest, and he practices holy virtues.
The ministers and others thought that changing clothes was outside the middle gate, in a special place. The name of the temple should be Xianzong, and the main sacrifices at four o'clock will be held in the Guangwu Temple Hall. Normally, after hearing the sacrifices, they will go back to the side hall to hold them, and perform the "Wude" dance together, just like Emperor Xiaowen held sacrifices in the Gaomiao Temple. Emperor Zhang’s instructions: Yes.
In this year, cattle plague broke out, and there was a severe drought in the capital and three prefectures. The order was not to collect land rent and firewood in Yan, Henan, and Xuzhou, and to use existing grains to help the poor.
In the first month of spring in the first year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, an order was issued to the three prefectures and counties: Now is the time for spring plowing, and I am afraid that a little food and poor people will be troubled, and it will hinder farming.
Those who are particularly poor should be individually identified and loans should be given to them together.
If wandering people want to return to their hometown, the county or county must provide them with sufficient food rations to enable them to return to their hometown, and let them stay in the official pavilion of the post station without paying for the inn.
The senior officials should personally check the matter, so as not to let the poor and weak people slip through the cracks and allow the powerful and small officials to cheat.
Now that the edict is issued, do not delay. The governor Mingjia will supervise those who have committed particularly serious crimes.
On the 23rd, Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: In recent years, there have been many cattle diseases, cultivated land has decreased, grain prices have been very high, and the population has been exiled.
It is spring plowing now, so we should seize the farming season in time.
Two thousand stones should be used to encourage people to engage in mulberry farming and make everyone diligent in farming.
The ministers and officials must treat each other with sincerity and devote themselves to the affairs of the common people.
Except for those who insist on beheading, the prisoners will not be tried until the beginning of autumn.
Relevant departments must carefully select and recommend personnel, recruit gentle people, reject greedy and cunning people, comply with the times, and clean up unjust prisons. The foundation of the Five Religions is tolerance, which is praised by "Shang Shu Shun Dian"; parents' officialdom is to be easy-going, which is praised by "Shi Da Ya Dong Zuo".
Announce to the world so that the world can understand my thoughts.
Duan Peng, the prefect of Jiuquan, attacked Che Division and defeated Che Division's army. Then go to Wuji School as a lieutenant.
In February, the barbarians in Wuling and Lizhong rebelled.
On March 12, Shanyang and Dongping earthquakes occurred.
On the 27th, Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: I inherited the emperor's legacy because of my lack of virtue. I am restless day and night, and I dare not live in peace.
And disasters continue to appear, corresponding to government affairs.
I am not wise in the first place. I have only been involved in the road for a short time. The people I recommend are not worthy of their names. The common officials harm the people. The official position is in disorder. The punishment is inappropriate. How can I not worry?
In the past, Zhong Gong was a retainer of the Ji family, and Zi You was a small prime minister of Wucheng. Confucius even taught that talented people should be promoted and asked if they could find capable people.
Qingming's political affairs, no matter how big or small, are based on getting people to govern.
Recommendations for rural elections require a lot of hard work. Nowadays, the governor and the prime minister do not know whether they are genuine or not. Maocai and Xiaolian recommend hundreds of people a year. They are not very capable people, and it is really boring to teach them political affairs.
Whenever I think about the recommenders in past lives, some of them started out in the fields and did not pay attention to their family background.
If they are asked to write letters to discuss affairs, most of what they say can be adopted; if they are tried in their posts, they will see unusual political achievements. Gentle and polite, I appreciate it very much.
Now the Taifu, Sangong, Zhong Erqianshi, Erqianshi, and the Prime Minister of the county are ordered to recommend one person each who is virtuous, upright, and able to speak out and criticize.
On the 20th day of the fifth lunar month in the summer, we began to recommend Xiaolian. Among the doctors, those who were generous, knowledgeable, and strategic enough to preside over government affairs were used to supplement the county magistrates and prime ministers.
On the 11th day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, the imperial edict was issued to give the land enclosed in Shanglin Garden to the poor.
On August 20, a comet appeared in Tianshixing.
In September, Yongchang Ailao Yi rebelled.
In the tenth month of winter, soldiers from Wuling County attacked the rebels, defeated them, and forced them to surrender.
In November, Fuling King Liu Yan rebelled and was demoted to Fuling Marquis.
On the fifth day of March in the second year, the edict said: In recent years, Yin and Yang have not been harmonious, and famines have occurred one after another.
Thinking deeply about the fundamental reason why the late emperor was worried about the common people is what the edict said: No harm to wealth, no harm to the people. He sincerely hopes that the common people will return to their roots and engage in farming.
But now the nobles and close relatives are arrogant and extravagant, marrying and dying, and doing things beyond their status and financial resources.
Officials violated laws and disciplines. No one dared to report it. The meaning of "Spring and Autumn" is to value the noble and the humble.
From now on, we will clearly correct illegal behaviors and promote dignity.
When I was young, I didn't know how difficult it was to farm. Can a mere fool at first sight illuminate a person?
Everyone must abide by all the rules and regulations that should be implemented, first in the capital and then in the local area.
On the eighth day of the lunar month, we went to Yiwulu to station troops.
The people and barbarians of the three counties of Yongchang, Yuexun, and Yizhou attacked Ailao, defeated Ailao, and the place was pacified.
On the 22nd day of April in the summer, more than 400 families who had moved due to the rebellion of Chu King Liu Ying and Huaiyang King Liu Yan were ordered to return to their own county.
On the 27th, he ordered Prime Minister Qi to omit Bingwan, Fang Konggu, and Chui Lunxu from serving as officials.
In June, the Shaodang Qiang rebelled. Hao Chong, the prefect of Jincheng, went to attack them, but was severely defeated. The Qiang invaded Hanyang.
In autumn and August, the acting chariot and cavalry general Ma Fang was sent to attack and put down the rebellion.
On December 16, the comet appeared in the constellation Purple Palace.
On the seventeenth day of the first lunar month in the third year of spring, we worshiped our ancestors in the Mingtang.
After the ceremony, go up to the spiritual platform and look at the clouds.
Amnesty to the world.
On the second day of March, the noble Dou family was made queen.
Reward the men in the world with a second-level title, three elders, filial brothers, and Litian each with a third-level title, and each person without household registration and refugees who want to return to their homeland will be given a first-level title. Those who are widowed, widowed, orphaned, alone, terminally ill, or poor and unable to survive will be given five dendrobium grains each.
On the ninth day of April in summer, construction of Changshan, Huchi, and Shijiu river canals was stopped.
The acting chariot general Ma Fang defeated the Shaodang Qiang in Lintao.
In the leap month, the fake Sima Banchao in Xicheng defeated Gumo. On the 11th day of the twelfth month in winter, Ma Fang was appointed as the general of chariots and cavalry. The barbarians in the middle of Wuling rebelled.
This year, Lingling offered Zhicao.
On the fifth day of February in the fourth year, Taiwei Mou Rong passed away.
On the fourth day of April in the summer, Prince Liu Qing was made the crown prince.
Reward every man in the world with a second rank, three elders, filial brothers, and Litian each with a third rank, and every unregistered citizen and homeless person who wants to return home will be given a first rank. Those who are widowed, widowed, orphaned, alone, terminally ill, or poor and unable to survive will each receive five husks of dendrobium millet.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Liu Gong, the king of Julu, was transferred to be the king of Jiangling, Liu Chang, the king of Runan, was the king of Liang, and Liu Ribing, the king of Changshan, was transferred to the king of Huaiyang.
On the seventh day of the lunar month, the prince Liu and his wife were named Qiancheng King, and Liu Quan was named Pingchun King.
On the second day of May, he was dismissed from the post of general of horse defense, chariot and cavalry.
On the 20th, Situ Bao Yu was appointed as Taiwei, and Nanyang Governor Huan Yu was appointed as Situ.
On June 30, Empress Dowager Ma passed away.
On the ninth day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, Empress Mingde was buried.
In winter, widespread diseases occurred among cattle.
On November 11, Emperor Zhang issued an edict stating: The three generations have enlightened and guided the people, and teaching is the basis.
The Han Dynasty succeeded the Qin Dynasty, praised Confucianism, established the Five Classics, and established doctors.
Since then, scholars have made great progress. Although they inherited the teacher's studies, they did not belong to the same family.
Emperor Xiaoxuan believed that he was far away from the saints and never tired of learning, so he established the "Da and Xiao Xia Hou Shangshu" and later the "Jingshi Yi".
When it came to Jianwu Middle School, there were also doctors named Yanshi Chunqiu, Yanshi Chunqiu, Dadaili and Xiaodaili.
This is all to support micro-learning and respect new and open Taoism.
In the imperial edict of the first year of the Zhongyuan Dynasty, there were many chapters and sentences in the "Five Classics", and I wanted to agree to reduce them.
In the first year of Yongping, Fan Xiu, the captain of Changshui School, wrote that the great cause of the late emperor should be implemented in a timely manner.
It is necessary for all Confucian scholars to correctly understand the meaning of the scriptures, which will greatly help scholars improve.
Confucius said: Not paying attention to academics is what worries me the most.
He also said: If you study extensively and are determined to act with determination, delve deeply into issues you don’t understand, and think over and over about things you already understand, then benevolence is within. well!
Let’s all work hard! So from Taichang down, generals, officials, doctors, Yilang, Langguan and other Confucian scholars gathered in Baihu Temple to discuss the similarities and differences of the Five Classics. The five officials were ordered to make Wei Yingcheng ask questions, and Chunyu Gong, the minister, made a report. The emperor personally called the emperor to make a final decision, just like the precedent of Emperor Xiaoxuan's Ganlu 2nd year and Ganlu, where Confucian scholars at Shiqutai lectured on the Five Classics and wrote "Baihu Tong".
This year, there were timely rains in Quanling and Taoyang counties.
In the spring of the fifth year, on the first day of the second lunar month, there was a solar eclipse.
Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: I have just suffered from the death of the Queen Mother. Misfortunes and misfortunes are gathering, visions appear in the sky, and huge changes are coming. Isn't it said in "The Book of Songs·Xiaoya"? Solar eclipses are very bad.
Coupled with the prolonged drought that has damaged the wheat, I am extremely worried.
It is recommended that each of the ministers and below recommend one person who can boldly criticize and point out my faults and send them to the bus door. I will personally interview and inquire.
Recommended people should be those from remote places in caves, and don't be frivolous and unreliable.
On the fifth day of the lunar month, Emperor Zhang issued an edict: "Spring and Autumn" records: There are no wheat seedlings, which means that people's food is the most important thing.
The rains were uneven last autumn, and this year there was another drought, burning like fire. The famine years followed, and no preparations were made.
Because of my bad virtue, I made the three lights of the sun, moon, and stars angry, and I was shocked and heartbroken.
The sages and kings of the previous generation had far-reaching thoughts and advice, and although they averted disasters and disasters, they also acted like kings who opened the golden chamber to turn the wind and raise crops, thus avoiding disasters.
What about me now? It's just miserable.
Now I order two thousand stones to redress the injustice and release the prisoners who have committed minor crimes. I pray to the five mountains and four mountains, as well as the famous mountains that can stir up clouds and cause rain, hoping to get a good reward that will not cause happy rain all over the morning.
Everyone must be pious and solemn!
On the fifth day of March, Emperor Zhang issued an edict: Confucius said: If the punishment is not appropriate, the people will not know what to do.
At present, there are many bad officials, who act arbitrarily and domineeringly according to their own moods, handle cases without basing their crimes on charges, threaten to persecute innocent people, and more often than not commit suicide and are sentenced to death within a year. This is not at all what the king of parents is meant to do.
Relevant departments should take notice and make corrections.
The soldiers from Jing and Henan counties attacked and defeated the rebel barbarians in Wuling and Yuzhong.
On May 27th of the Xia Dynasty, Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: I hope to get upright scholar-officials and respectfully listen to their opinions. Those who arrive first will express their anger and complain, and I will have a general understanding of their aspirations. I want to place them on my left and right as advisors to understand and adopt their opinions.
The edict from the Jianwu period also stated that when Yao tried his ministers on their posts, they were not only based on those who could speak and write.
At present, many official positions in other places are vacant and can be filled by them. In Wuchen, Taifu Zhao Xi passed away.
In winter, start to implement the moon order to welcome Qi music.
This year, Lingling contributed Zhicao.
Eight yellow dragons appeared in Quanling.
Xiling pretended to be Sima Banchao and defeated Shule.
In the spring of the sixth year of the first lunar month of Xinmao, Liu Jing, the king of Langyi, passed away.
On the 19th day of the fifth lunar month, King Liu Xu of Zhao passed away.
On June 15, Taiwei Bao Yu passed away.
On the 30th, dusk, solar eclipse.
On the 22nd day of the seventh month in the autumn, Deng Biao, the chief minister, was appointed Taiwei.
In the first month of the spring of the seventh year, King Liu Fu of Pei, King Liu Kang of Jinan, King Liu Cang of Dongping, King Liu Yan of Zhongshan, King Liu Zheng of Donghai, and King Liu Yu of Langyi came to Beijing to pay homage.
On June 18th in the summer, the crown prince Liu Qing was deposed as the king of Qinghe, and the prince Liu Zhao was made the crown prince.
On the 23rd, King Liu Xian of Guangping was transferred to King Xiping.
In autumn and August, people drink wine and worship Emperor Guangwu and Emperor Xiaoming.
On the ninth day of the lunar month, Emperor Zhang issued an edict: "Shangshu" said: "Zukao Laige" is a tribute to Mingzhi, which can bring about the arrival of the god of Zukao.
I am insignificant and have a meager temperament. I rely on the late emperor's sincerity and kindness, so I come to hold the Emperor's Sacrifice to express my filial piety.
I was able to understand the order of father and son Zhaomu, and express my memory for my distant ancestors.
This year the ceremony was held again, and a new seat of the late emperor was added, which was even more sad.
We welcome you with joy and send you away with sorrow. Although we are offering sacrifices to the deceased, we feel empty and uncertain. We only hope to enjoy this festival.
Is there no way to be cautious about Su Yong’s ministers? All the officials and princes came to assist in the sacrifice, which made me yearn for it endlessly.
Now the reward is 400,000 yuan in public money, 200,000 yuan in ministers, and 100 officials and deacons respectively.
On the tenth day of the ninth lunar month, Emperor Zhang arrived in Yanshi, crossed to Juanjin in the east, and arrived in Hanoi. He issued an edict: "I came out to see the autumn harvest and learned that the years were good and poor, so I set foot in the county boundary."
They all ride lightly and don't have much luggage.
Do not repair roads and bridges, do not stay away from the city, send officials and people to cater to them, serve them daily, cheer in front and support them in front of them, and increase the nuisance.
All actions must be frugal. I just hope that I can take off the millet and drink from the gourd. Wherever I pass, I will benefit the poor and the weak. Don't go against what I say in this edict. So we visited Qi Garden.
On the 21st, we marched to Ye County. As for the consolation and rewards given by the governor of Wei County, the three elders, gatekeepers, and soldiers were all given varying amounts of money.
He gave condolences to the officials and people of Changshan and Zhao, and exempted the Yuan family from rent and taxes for three years.
On the 27th, Emperor Zhang returned to Luoyang.
The emperor ordered the prisoners to be punished with a reduced death penalty. Don't be beaten and sent to the border to guard the border; wives and children will voluntarily go with them and register with the local household registration. Parents, brothers and sisters who want to go with them should not be restricted; those who refuse to go will be punished as delaying the collection and allocation of military supplies.
Those who committed the crime of beheading were all punished by rotting in the Jamsil room, and women were punished by castration.
Those who were imprisoned by Guixin and Baican for more than three years' imprisonment would have their original crime reduced to one level and be punished with hard labor on the border.
The atonement of death: twenty pieces of steel are required for the crime of death, and ten pieces of steel are made from the time when the right foot is cut off to the city of Kunqi, and three pieces of steel are made from the day after the city is completed to the Sikou. The officials and the people are not aware of their guilt, and those who surrender after the edict is issued will receive half of the atonement.
On the 19th day of the tenth month in winter, Emperor Zhang visited the west and arrived at Chang'an.
On the 22nd, I visited the high temple and offered sacrifices to the Eleven Tombs.
Envoys were sent to offer sacrifices to the Supreme Emperor in Ten Thousand Years, and pigs and sheep were sacrificed to Xiao He and Huo Guang.
The emperor arrived at Huaili.
Qishan obtained a bronze vessel in the shape of a wine vessel and dedicated it to the emperor.
Got another white deer.
Emperor Zhang said: There is no wise emperor above, and no virtuous local governor below. If a person does not do any good deeds, everyone will blame each other.
What are these noble artifacts used for? Arrive at Chenping again, visit Chiyang Palace, go to Gaoling in the east, connect the boat to a pontoon bridge, and return across the Jing River.
Everywhere he went, he would gather officials and people from counties and counties to give him gifts and have fun.
In November, the imperial edict issued a consolation reward to the governors, commanders, and cadres of Hedong.
In December of Dinghai, Emperor Zhang returned to Luoyang.
This year, the capital and prefectures were plagued by locusts.
On the twenty-ninth day of the first month of the eighth year of spring, Liu Cang, king of Dongping, passed away.
On March 29th, King Dongping Xian was buried and given a royal chariot and a dragon flag.
In June of Xia, the leader of the Northern Huns led his troops to surrender.
On February 18, Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: The king's eight policies are based on food. Therefore, in ancient times, we attached great importance to farming, devoted ourselves to farming, saved money sparingly, and prepared for famine years, so we would not go hungry even if we were in bad years.
Since the plague broke out in Luzhong, the grain production has been decreasing year after year. This is indeed because the officials have no sense of responsibility. The governor and Erqianshi do not worry about the people's food. The prefectures and counties are now ordered to recruit those who have no land and want to move to rich areas, and all will do so on their own initiative. When he arrives at the location, he will be given public land, hire servants, lend him grain, and lend him farm tools. He will not collect rent for five years and will not collect population tax for three years. If you want to return to your place of origin in the future, there is no prohibition. Emperor Zhang's edict said: "The analysis of the Five Classics is far from that of the saints. The chapters, sentences and words left behind are difficult to correct due to mistakes and difficulties. I am afraid that the great righteousness of the former teacher will be wasted and extinct. This does not pay attention to the examination of ancient teachings and the exploration of the true truth between heaven and earth."
Confucian scholars are now ordered to select talented students to teach "Zuo Shi Chun Qiu", "Gu Liang Chun Qiu", "Guwen Shangshu", and "Mao Shi" to rescue declining academics and promote novel principles.
This year, the capital and prefectures were plagued by locusts. In the first year of Yuanhe, Liu Yan, the king of Zhongshan, came to court, and the barbarians from outside the Rinan border offered rhinos and white pheasants. On the fifteenth day of the intercalary month, Liu Chang, the king of Jiyin, passed away. On the 24th of April in the summer, the Dongping Kingdom was divided, and Liu Cangzi and Liu Shang were granted the title of King of Rencheng.
On the seventh day of June, King Pei Liu Fu passed away.
On the 23rd day of the seventh lunar month in the autumn, Emperor Zhang issued an edict: "The Law" stipulates that the only way to ask questions is to strike, whip, or stand.
Also, "Ling Bing" stipulates that those who hit people have certain merits.
Since the beginning of the Kao Prison, Lu Kao has been brutally tortured, including drilling, chiseling, and sawing, which is extremely cruel.
Thinking about its pain and poison makes me frightened and frightened.
"Shangshu" says that whipping is used as a punishment for judgment. Is this true?
Torture should be clearly prohibited when cases are tried in the fall and winter.
On August 11, the Taiwei Deng Biao was dismissed from his post and the chief minister Zheng Hong was appointed as the Taiwei.
On the 20th, Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: My governance and education are not good enough, my officials are in disharmony, and my people are ignorant. I will pay for my sins.
The bandits are constantly fighting, and the villages in the countryside are not repaired.
I have thought about many things for a long time, hoping to examine their correct laws and promote them together with other gentlemen.
I have a long heart, what will I use to put it in?
Today, the ninth year of the Lunar New Year is changed to the first year of Yuanhe.
If the prisoner of the county is punished by one degree of death penalty, he will not be beaten, and he will be sent to the border county. If his wife voluntarily goes with him, he will be registered in the local household.
Anyone who commits the crime of beheading will be sent to the silkworm room to be tortured, and women to be castrated. Those who are detained as ghosts and above are Baican and above, will have their crimes reduced to one level, and will be sent to the frontiers to do hard labor.
Those who are on the run will atone for their sins with money and materials according to the severity of their crimes. Ding You, Emperor Zhang inspected the south, and issued an edict that no prefectures or counties should prepare in advance on the roads they passed.
Order Sikong to bring his own staff to support the bridge.
Someone was sent to welcome him and visit his daily life, and he was punished with two thousand stones.
As a reward, five dendrobium chestnuts will be given to those who are widowed, widowed, alone, and have difficulty in living.
On September 12, Liu Zhong, King of Dongping, passed away.
On the 18th, Emperor Zhang went to Zhangling to offer sacrifices to the old Zhaiyuan Temple, meet with the old clan members, and receive various rewards.
On the seventh day of the tenth lunar month in winter, we marched to Jiangling and ordered the prefect of Lujiang to offer sacrifices to Nanyue in the temple. He also ordered the prefects of Changsha and Lingling to offer sacrifices to King Ding of Changsha, Marquis of Chungling Festival, and Lord Yulinfu.
Arrive at Wan when turning around.
On the seventh day of November, I returned to Luoyang. Reward the accompanying persons respectively.
On the first day of the twelfth lunar month, Emperor Zhang issued an edict: "Shangshu" says: If a father is not kind and his son is disrespectful, if an elder brother is not friendly and a younger brother is disrespectful, this means they are not close to each other!
In the past, the evil speech prison had a wide range of implications. If one person committed a crime, his father, mother, and wife would be punished, and he would not be able to be an official or serve in the dynasty.
Even if there are talents, they will not be ignored. I feel very sorry for them. This is not giving people a chance to get back on their feet.
Now, all those who were previously imprisoned due to evil will be lifted and given a way out, but they are not allowed to stay on night duty in the palace or serve as guards.
On the fifth day of the first lunar month in the spring of the second year, Emperor Zhang issued an edict: The "Order" stipulates that people who have children will be exempted from land tax and will be exempted from head tax for three years.
Those who are pregnant now will be rewarded with three dendrobium bushes per person who raised the fetus, and the husband will be exempted from taxes and poll tax for one year. This is clearly stipulated. He also ordered Sangong to say: "Spring is the time for fertility. When the seeds of all things germinate, we should help the sun to sprout so that they can develop at the right time."
Now that I have an official, I will not put the case to trial unless the crime is beheading, and I will not accept the complaints from the officials and the people. I hope that the matter will be put to rest and people can enjoy the good times.
It will be handled as usual after the beginning of autumn.
The vulgar officials are deliberately superficial, specious, and it sounds pretty good based on human affairs. In terms of the yin and yang of heaven and earth, it harms nature. I am disgusted and very distressed.
A law-abiding official who is sincere and unpretentious. You can't tell him that he is good for a while, but he will become outstanding as time goes by.
For example, when Xiangcheng ordered Liu Fang, the officials and the people unanimously said that he was not afraid of trouble. Although there was nothing special about him, he had almost reached this level.
In the past, everyone was ordered to be lenient and lenient for two thousand stones, but now the treacherous rich bribe the people below, and the corrupt officials pervert the law. Let the guilty go unpunished and be punished without any fault, which is the greatest perverse behavior.
Taking harshness as a sign of discernment, taking harshness as a sign of understanding, taking lightness as a virtue, and taking heaviness as a prestige. If these four things may flourish, there will be resentment underneath.
I issued the edict several times, and officials came and went, but the administration was not better, and some even neglected their duties. Where did this disaster come from?
I hope that the old laws will be implemented well to suit my wishes.
On the fourth day of February, the four-element calendar began to be used.
Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: Today there is no order in the mountains and rivers where ghosts and gods should be sacrificed.
Now it is agreed to increase various sacrifices to pray for a good harvest. On the sixth day of the lunar month, Emperor Zhang made an inspection tour eastward.
On the ninth day of the Lunar New Year, Phoenix gathered in Feicheng.
On the 15th, Emperor Zhang plowed in Dingtao.
The edict said: The three elders are old, filial and virtuous.
Work hard in the fields and work hard.
The country revered them.
Now each of them is given a piece of silk to encourage their agricultural achievements. An envoy was sent to Chengyang Lingtai to worship Emperor Yao.
On the 21st, Emperor Zhang went to Mount Tai to burn firewood and pray to Daizong.
There were thirty yellow swans flying from the southwest, passing over the altar, and flying over the palace room on their way to the northeast, soaring up and down.
March to Fenggao.
On the 22nd, the Five Emperors were worshiped at Wenshang Mingtang.
On the 23rd, we held sacrifices to the second ancestor and the fourth sect of the temple, and gathered all the ministers inside and outside the temple.
On the 26th, the edict said: I inspected Daizong, burned firewood, looked at the mountains and rivers, and worshiped in the ancestral hall to highlight the achievements of the late emperor.
The descendants of the two kings and the sage Confucius, the Fan guards of the Eastern monarchs, the uncles and brothers of the princes with the same surname, the descendants of hundreds of officials, the sons of the clan, the four descendants of the wilderness, the people from the north of the desert, the west of the green hills, the people of the Western Regions, who have traveled through the mountains, experienced hardships and dangers, and galloped into the suburbs, all came to assist in the sacrifice.
The merits of my ancestors have been passed down to me.
I am empty and full of guilt. I inherit the honor and wash the sacrifices that the gods enjoy. I feel ashamed and fearful.
Doesn't it say in "Book of Songs Xiaoya" that good fortune and virtuous people are rewarded, and turmoil can be quickly stopped?
The four-part calendar has been implemented, and the sun and moon are clearly visible. I also want to renew my virtues with the scholar-bureaucrats.
Amnesty to the world.
All crimes that do not deserve forgiveness will be forgiven.
Exemption from gambling, high-paying, and winning taxes, and no rent for this year's land or grass. On the 28th, the emperor arrived in Jinan.
On the tenth day of the third month, the emperor entered Lu and offered sacrifices to the tomb of Prince Gong in the East China Sea.
On the eleventh day, sacrifices were made to Confucius and his seventy-two disciples in the palace. Reward Chenghou and the men and women of the Confucius family with cloth and silk.
On the 13th, the emperor went to Dongping to pay homage to King Xian's tomb.
On the 15th, envoys were sent to pay homage to the tombs of Queen Mother Lingtao and Prince Gong.
On the 16th, the emperor arrived at Dong'a, climbed Taihang Mountain to the north, and reached Tianjing Pass.
In April Yisi of summer, a guest star entered the purple palace constellation.
On the sixth day of the lunar month, Emperor Zhang returned to Luoyang.
On the eleventh day, I went to the ancestral temple to worship Emperor Gao.
On May 30th, Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: Recently, phoenixes, yellow dragons, and luan birds have gathered in seven counties. In some counties, they have appeared a second time, and white crows, divine sparrows, and nectar have repeatedly descended.
Some of the old rules of our ancestors are to enact favors.
Today, the officials in the world are given three levels of nobility. Each of the elderly, widowed, widowed, lonely, and alone will be given a piece of silk.
The scriptures say: Do not bully the widowers and the lonely, but let them receive favor.
Now I will give a hundred women from Henan a cow and ten stones of wine, so that the whole world can drink and have fun for five days.
The rewards given to ministers and ministers vary in money and silk. People in Luoyang should be given cloth by Youfu, one piece for each household, and one piece for three households outside the city.
Doctoral disciples are now given three pieces of cloth by the Imperial College.
The people who order the counties to report the Ming Sutra include five people with a population of more than 100,000 and three people with a population of less than 100,000.
Lujiang was changed to Liu'an Kingdom, and Jiangling was restored to Nanjun.
Liu Gong, the king of Jiangling, was transferred to the throne of Liu'an.
On the 23rd day of the seventh month in autumn, the edict said: "Spring and Autumn" is written to the king every month in the spring, which emphasizes the three righteousnesses - the righteousness of the day, the righteousness of the earth, and the righteousness of people, and is cautious about the three subtleties - the beginning of the three righteousnesses, all things are subtle.
At the beginning of spring in December, the law is determined and no one is imprisoned.
After the winter solstice, there is a record in the "Moon Order" about Shunyang to help children, but there is no practice of interrogating prisoners and sentencing them.
I asked Gao Ming for advice and studied ancient books, and they all said that when a person decides whether to live or die, he should obey the seasons.
It is now stipulated that criminals will not be tried in November and December.
On September 16th, Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: Places where Phoenix and Huanglong appear will be exempted from paying rent for two years.
The men were given additional titles of two degrees each; twenty pieces of silk were given to the seer, three pieces to the nearest, thirty pieces to the prefect, fifteen pieces to the county magistrate and magistrate, and half to the prime ministers and lieutenants.
"The Book of Songs" says: Although there is no great virtue with you, it is still good to have some entertainment with singing and dancing.
Others are just like the precedent of conferring titles.
On the 20th, King Liu Kang of Jinan and King Liu Yan of Zhongshan were summoned to participate in the sacrifice.
November 17, the winter solstice, is the first day of seclusion in Guanliang, and business travel is not possible.
On the 11th day of the first lunar month in the third year of spring, Emperor Zhang issued an edict: As a king of a country, he should treat the common people like his parents, worry about them, teach them wisdom, benevolence, righteousness, loyalty, and harmony, and help them if they have funeral difficulties.
If the baby has no parents or relatives, or if there are children who cannot be fed, food will be provided according to the law. On the 22nd, Emperor Zhang visited the north, and King Liu Kang of Jinan, King Liu Yan of Zhongshan, King Liu Xian of Xiping, King Liu Gong of Lu'an, King Liu Dang of Lecheng, King Liu Ribing of Huaiyang, King Liu Shang of Rencheng, and King Liu Ding of Pei all followed him.
On the 27th, Emperor Zhang plowed in Huai County.
In the second month, Renyin said to the prefects of Changshan, Wei, Qinghe, Julu, and Dongping counties: I think that the system of inspections is used to promote enlightenment, inspect far and near, and explain grievances.
Today's political affairs in the four parties are not good because there are no people with both ability and political integrity. The emperor's inspection is to understand for himself the difficulties and ease.
In the past, people would offer sacrifices to the garden tombs, look up to Mount Huashan, and climb to the east of Daizong to burn firewood to offer sacrifices to heaven and pray for people.
Now I am going to pay my respects to Changshan, and then go to the north, pass through Wei County, pass through the plains, climb embankments, and interview the elders. They all said: In the past, the Bian Canal was not repaired, and the deep parts became a source of water, and the shallow parts became a muddy pond.
Recalling the late emperor's virtue of being diligent in human affairs, he set a long-term plan to restore Xia Yu's great cause of flood control, and his holy deeds spread overseas.
I feel very ashamed that I cannot inherit this great cause.
The "Moon Order" says that Meng Chun should be good at identifying crops suitable for planting on hilly land.
There are still many fertile fields today, but they have not been cultivated.
They should all be given to the poor and provided with grain and seeds. The land's potential must be maximized and people should not be allowed to idle around.
In the counties he passed through, he paid only half of the annual land rent as a reward for the farmers' hard work.
On the 21st, Emperor Zhang ordered his censors, Shi and Sikong, to say: It is spring now, and no one is allowed to cut down or kill anyone wherever they go.
If the car can be detoured to avoid it, then detour it; if the horse is not a horse and it can be stopped, then stop it.
The Book of Songs says: Cattle and sheep should not trample on the lush reeds by the roadside.
"Book of Rites" says: If a ruler cuts down every plant and tree at the wrong time, it is said to be unfilial.
Most people know how to follow human feelings, but not how to follow God's will.
I hope everyone understands and agrees with me.
On the 24th, Emperor Zhang entered Zhongshan and sent envoys to worship Beiyue outside the Great Wall.
On the 29th, he returned to Yuanshi and worshiped Guangwu and Xianzong in the main hall of the county house. On the next day, he worshiped Xianzong in Shishengtang and played music.
On the third day of March, Gaoyi was ordered to offer sacrifices to Guangwu at the altar.
On the 23rd of April in the summer, Taiwei Zheng Hong was dismissed from his post and was appointed Da Si Nong Song You as Taiwei. On the third day of the fifth lunar month, Sikong Wu Lun resigned and appointed his servant Yuan An as Sikong.
On the 24th of August in autumn, Emperor Zhang went to Anyi to inspect the salt pond.
In September, he returned to Beijing from Anyi.
In the tenth month of winter, Liu Ji, the king of Beihai, passed away.
The Shaodang Qiang rebelled and invaded Longxi.
In this year, Banchao, the governor of the Western Regions, killed King Shule.
In the spring and March of the first year of Zhanghe, the Qiang-protecting captain Fu Yu pursued the rebel Qiang and was killed in battle.
On the ninth day of the fourth lunar month in the Xia Dynasty, the commander-in-chief of the county was ordered to reduce the death penalty of the prisoners by one level and send them to Jincheng for garrison.
On the second day of June, Situ Huanyu was dismissed from office.
In Guimao, Sikong Yuan An was appointed as Situ, and Guang Luxun appointed Wei as Sikong.
On the eighth day of the seventh lunar month in autumn, King Liu Huang of Qi was found guilty and demoted to the title of Marquis of Wuhu.
On the 17th, King Liu Ribing of Huaiyang passed away.
Xianbei killed Bei Shanyu.
When the Shaodang Qiang invaded Jincheng, Liu Xu, the guard of the Qiang, attacked them and beheaded their leader.
On the 27th, Emperor Zhang issued an edict saying: I know that the virtue of a wise ruler lies in promoting education, harmony and stability, illuminating the universe and reaching everyone.
Then worship in the temple, enjoy the auspicious celebration of the five blessings, and receive the blessings of the phoenix.
With my humble virtues, I have inherited the great legacy of my ancestors.
Recently, phoenixes have gathered frequently, unicorns have arrived, rain has fallen at night, and valleys have grown thickly, with orchids and auspicious grasses growing in abundance year after year. I am in awe of God day and night, and have no regard for the merits of the late king.
Today, the fourth year of Yuanhe is changed to the first year of Zhanghe.
In autumn, I ordered the month to support the elderly, gave them a few sticks, and allowed them to eat rotten porridge.
Give the two seniors a piece of cloth each and fold sweets and milk into them.
Prisoners who committed capital crimes and were arrested before being pardoned on April 9th ​​will have their death penalty reduced and will not be flogged but will be sent to Jincheng for garrison.
On the eighth day of August, Emperor Zhang visited the south.
On the 17th, an envoy was sent to worship Zhaolinghou in Xiaohuang Garden. On the 19th, Liu Shang, the king of Rencheng, was summoned to meet with Suiyang.
On the 23rd, the emperor arrived in Liang.
On the 24th, envoys were sent to pay homage to Pei Gaoyuan Temple and Fengmu Fenyu Society.
On the 30th, the emperor came to Pei, offered sacrifices to the king's tomb, and summoned Liu Zheng, king of the East China Sea.
On the 30th, dusk, solar eclipse.
On the fifth day of September, the emperor arrived at Pengcheng, accompanied by Liu Zheng, King of Donghai, Liu Ding, King of Pei, and Liu Shang, King of Rencheng.
On the 16th, the emperor arrived in Shouchun.
On the 17th, the imperial edict ordered all the officials in the prefecture and state to reduce the death penalty to one level and send them to Jincheng for garrison; men who were guilty of beheading were to be sentenced to corruption and women to uterine punishment. Those who were imprisoned as ghosts and above were given a reduced sentence of one level, and were sent to the border areas to guard the border and work as hard labor.
The fugitive criminals will atone for their sins: twenty pieces of capital punishment will be tied, and seven pieces will be pounded by cutting off the right foot when they reach Kunxiang City, and three pieces will be pounded by Sikou once they finish the city; if the officials and the people commit crimes without being discovered, and the edict arrives and they surrender, half of them will be redeemed.
Then he named the Marquis of Fuling as the King of Fuling.
On the twenty-fourth, the emperor arrived in Ruyin.
On the twelfth day of the tenth month in winter, the emperor returned to Luoyang.
The Northern Xiongnu Wulan Chu and others led their troops to surrender.
This year, Shi Banchao, the commander of the Western Regions, attacked Shache and severely defeated him.
The Yuezhi Kingdom sent envoys to offer hornless lins and lions.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, Liu Kang, the king of Jinan, Liu Yan, the king of Fuling, and Liu Yan, the king of Zhongshan, came to Beijing to pay homage.
On February 30, the emperor passed away in the front hall of Zhangde at the age of thirty-three.
Those who cannot afford to sleep in temples according to the imperial edict will follow the system of the late emperor.
