Tian Dan is the distant descendant of the Tian family in Qi State.
During the reign of King Qi Min, Tian Dan served as a minor official in charge of the municipal administration in Linyi City, the capital, and was not reused by the King of Qi.
Later, Yan State sent general Le Yi to attack Qi State, and King Qi Min was forced to flee from the capital, and soon retreated to Jucheng.
When the Yan army marched in to conquer Qi, Tian Dan also left the capital and fled to Anping. He asked his people to saw off all the protruding parts of the axles at both ends and wrap them in iron sheets.
Soon, the Yan army besieged Anping again, and the city was breached. The Qi people scrambled to escape. Many people were captured by the Yan army because their axles were broken. Only Tian Dan and his clansmen were able to escape because they wrapped the axle with iron hoops and retreated eastward to Jimo.
At this time, the Yan army had surrendered all the cities of Qi, and only two cities, Ju and Jimo, had not yet been conquered.
When the Yan army heard that King Qi Min was in Jucheng, they gathered their troops and attacked Jucheng with all their strength.
Minister Nao Chi killed King Qi Min in Jucheng and defended the city against the Yan army. The Yan army did not break the city for several years.
As a last resort, General Yan could only lead his troops eastward and besiege Jimo. The officials guarding the city of Jimo went out to fight with the Yan army, but were defeated and killed.
The soldiers and civilians in Jimo City elected Tian Dan as their leader, saying: In the battle of Anping, Tian Dan and his fellow tribesmen were able to escape safely because they wrapped the axles with iron hoops, which shows that he knows the art of war.
Therefore, everyone supported Tian Dan as general, defended Jimo, and resisted the Yan army.
Not long after, King Yan Zhao died and King Yan Hui came to the throne. There was a rift between him and Le Yi.
After Tian Dan heard the news, he sent people to Yan State to implement countermeasures and threatened: King Qi Min has been killed, and there are only two Qi State cities that have not been conquered.
Le Yi did not dare to return home because he was afraid of being killed by the king. In the name of attacking Qi, he actually wanted to join forces with Qi's troops and become king of Qi.
The people of Qi have not yet surrendered, so they are stalling for time and delaying the attack on Jimo in order to wait for the time to mature before claiming the throne.
What the people of Qi are worried about is that they are afraid that Yan will send other generals. In that case, Mo City will definitely be destroyed.
King Yan Hui thought these words were correct and sent his general Qi Jie to replace Le Yi.
As a result, Le Yi fled to Zhao State, and the Yan officers and soldiers were very angry about this.
Tian Dan also ordered the soldiers and civilians in the city to offer sacrifices to their ancestors in the courtyard before eating, causing many birds to fly around the city as they competed for the sacrificial food.
Yan Jun outside the city felt strange when he saw it.
Tian Dan threatened again: "This is a god descending from the sky to guide us in defeating the enemy and winning."
And the people in the city said: There must be a man of god who will be my military advisor.
A soldier said: Can I be your military advisor?
After saying that, he walked away.
Tian Dan stood up quickly, pulled him over, asked him to sit on the upper seat facing east, and served him with the etiquette of serving a teacher.
The soldier said: I lied to you, I actually have no skills. Tian Dan said: Stop talking.
Then he became his teacher.
Every time you give an order, you must say it is the master's idea.
He also threatened: What I fear most is that the Yan army will cut off the noses of the captured Qi soldiers, put them at the front of the team, and then fight with us, then Jimo will definitely be conquered.
When Yan Jun heard this, he acted accordingly.
When the people in the city saw that many surrendered soldiers from Qi had their noses cut off, everyone was filled with indignation and defended even more firmly, fearing that they would be caught by the enemy.
Tian Dan sent someone to counterattack and said: "I am very afraid that the Yan people dug up our ancestral graves outside the city and insulted our ancestors. This is really chilling."
After the Yan army heard about it, they dug up all the graves of the Qi people and burned the dead bodies.
When the people of Jimo saw this scene from the city, they all cried bitterly and asked to go out of the city to fight. They were very angry.
Tian Dan knew that now was the best time to go to war, so he personally took the plywood and shovel, and built fortifications with the soldiers. He also included his wife and concubines in the team, and took out all the food to reward the soldiers.
He ordered the well-equipped elite troops not to ambush, and allowed the old, weak, remnant soldiers and women to defend at the top of the city. He also sent envoys to the Yan army's camp to agree on the surrender with the Yan army. After learning the news, the Yan army soldiers all shouted long live.
Tian Dan collected gold from the people and got a thousand yi in total, and asked the rich and powerful people in Jimo City to go and give it to General Yan, requesting: Jimo is about to surrender. I hope that after you enter the city, you will not kidnap our wives and concubines, so that they can be safe.
The general of the Yan army was very happy and agreed to him.
The Yan army became more relaxed as a result.
Tian Dan collected more than a thousand cows from the city, covered them with bright red silk quilts with colorful dragon patterns painted on them, tied sharp knives to the horns, tied grease-soaked reeds to the cows' tails, and lit the reeds on the cows' tails.
He also dug dozens of caves into the city wall, drove the cattle out of the caves at night, and sent five thousand strong soldiers to follow the fire cattle.
Because their tails were burned, the fire oxen went straight to the Yan army's camp in a rage. All of this happened suddenly at night, causing the Yan army to panic.
The torches on the tails of the oxen illuminated the night as brightly as day. Yan Jun saw that their bodies were covered with dragon patterns, and those who touched them were either dead or injured.
Five thousand warriors attacked silently with coins in their mouths, while the people in Mo City took the opportunity to beat drums and shout, following closely behind. Even the old and weak women and children held bronze utensils and beat the sound loudly, which combined with the shouts outside the city to form an earth-shattering sound.
The Yan army was frightened and fled in defeat.
The people of Qi killed Yan's general Qi Jie in the rebellion.
The Yan army was in chaos and fled for their lives. The Qi army pursued the fleeing enemy troops closely. The towns they passed through betrayed the Yan army and surrendered to Tian Dan. Tian Dan's troops also increased day by day, taking advantage of the military power of victory to pursue them all the way. The Yan army fled in panic, its combat effectiveness weakening day by day, and retreated to the edge of the Yellow River. More than 70 cities that had originally been lost to Qi were recovered by Qi.
So Tian Dan went to Jucheng to greet King Xiang of Qi, and King Xiang returned to the capital Linzi to handle government affairs.
King Xiang of Qi granted him the title of Land Dan and the title of Lord Anping.
Tai Shigong said: When fighting with troops, we should not only engage in head-on confrontation, but also use surprise troops to attack and win.
People who are good at using troops can always use surprise and variety to create endless changes.
The combination of head-on confrontation and surprise victory is as unpredictable as a circle with no beginning and end.
At the beginning of the war, you should be as calm and weak as a virgin, luring the enemy to open the door wide and be unprepared; then when the time comes, be as fast and agile as an escaped rabbit, leaving the enemy with no time to defend. This is exactly how Tian Dan uses his troops!
At the beginning, when Naochi killed King Qi Min, the people of Jucheng were looking for King Qi Min's son Fazhang, and found him at Tai Shiyan's home. He was plowing and watering the fields for others.
Tai Shi's daughter liked him and was very kind to him.
Later, Fazhang told her his situation, and she had an affair with Fazhang.
When the people of Jucheng jointly supported Fa Zhang as the king of Qi and used Jucheng to fight against the Yan army, Taishi Yan's daughter was made the queen. This is what people call the "queen queen".
When the Yan army first invaded the Qi State, they heard that Wang Yu, a native of Huayi, was a talented man, so he ordered the army to say: No entry is allowed within thirty miles around Huayi. This is because of Wang Li.
Soon, the Yan State sent someone to say to Wang Zhu: "Many people in the Qi State praise your noble character. We will appoint you as a general and grant you 10,000 households of food."
Wang Yi firmly refused and refused to accept.
The people of Yan said: If you are unwilling to accept it, we will lead the army and slaughter the city!
Wang Pei said: A loyal minister cannot serve two monarchs, and a loyal woman will not remarry a second husband.
The King of Qi did not listen to my advice, so I lived in seclusion and farmed in the countryside.
Now the state of Qi has been destroyed, and I cannot revive it. Now you are using force to kidnap me to be your general. If I agree, it will mean that I am helping King Jie to commit violence.
Rather than live and do this unjust thing, it would be better to be cooked to death!
Then he hung his neck on a branch, struggled hard, broke his neck and died.
When the fleeing officials of Qi heard about this, they said: "Wang Zhu is just a commoner. He can still stick to his moral integrity and refuse to surrender to the Yan people, let alone us serving officials who enjoy state salaries!"
So they gathered together and rushed to Jucheng to seek the son of King Qi Min and support him as King Qi Xiang.
