King Jing Liu Jia is from the Liu clan, but it is not known which branch of the Liu clan he belongs to. When the trouble first broke out, it was the first year of the Han Dynasty.
The King of Han returned from Hanzhong to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, appointed Liu Jia as general, and asked him to pacify the Sedi, and then followed the King of Han to attack Xiang Yu from the east.
In the fourth year of the Han Dynasty, the King of Han was defeated at Chenggao. He crossed the Yellow River north and got the troops of Zhang Er and Han Xin. They stationed themselves in Xiuwu. They dug deep trenches and built high forts. He sent Liu Jia to lead two armies and hundreds of cavalry to cross Baima Jin and enter the Chu land. They burned the grain and grass stored there and destroyed the industry there so that they could not supply King Xiang with military grain.
Soon the Chu army attacked Liu Jia. Liu Jia always held fast to the camp and maintained a mutual dependence with Peng Yue.
In the fifth year of the Han Dynasty, the Han Dynasty pursued Xiang Yu to Guling and sent Liu Jianan to cross the Huai River to surround Shouchun.
Liu Jia arrived soon and sent people to look for opportunities to recruit Zhou Yin, the great Sima of Chu.
Zhou Yin betrayed King Xiang and helped Liu Jia capture Jiujiang. The army of King Wu Yingbu met at Gaixia and jointly attacked Xiang Yu.
The king of Han then Liu Jia led the Jiujiang army and together with Taiwei Lu Wan, attacked Linjiang Wang Gongwei to the southwest.
After Wei Gong died, Linjiang was renamed Nanjun.
In the spring of the sixth year of the Han Dynasty, the Han King Liu Bang met with the princes in Chen County, deposed the Chu King Han Xin, and imprisoned him. His territory was divided into two countries.
At this time, Emperor Gaozu's son was young, had few brothers, and had no talents. He wanted to make a member of the same family the king to control the world, so he issued an edict saying: General Liu Jia has military exploits, and he should select the disciples of the Liu family who have military exploits to be crowned king.
All the ministers said: Liu Jia should be made King of Jing, commanding fifty-two cities in the east of Huaihe; Liu Jiao, Gaozu's younger brother, should be made King of Chu, commanding thirty-six cities in the west.
Liu Bang then appointed his son Liu Fei as King of Qi.
Only then did the Liu brothers begin to be crowned kings.
In the autumn of the eleventh year of Emperor Gaozu's reign, King Yingbu of Huainan rebelled and went east to attack Jingdi.
Liu Jia, king of Jing, fought with him but failed to win. He fled to Fuling and was killed by Yingbu's army.
Gaozu personally defeated Yingbu.
In the twelfth year, Peihou Liu Bi was named King of Wu and ruled over the former homeland of King Jing.
King Liu Ze of Yan was a distant relative of the Liu family.
In the third year of Emperor Gaodi's reign, Liu Ze was appointed as a doctor.
In the eleventh year of Emperor Gaodi's reign, Liu Ze used his position as a general to attack Chen Xi, captured the enemy general Wang Huang, and was granted the title of Marquis of Yingling.
During the reign of Emperor Gao, Tian Sheng, a native of Qi, was traveling abroad and lacked travel funds, so he asked Liu Ze, Marquis of Yingling, for help by offering suggestions.
Liu Ze was very happy and used 200 kilograms of gold to celebrate Tian Sheng's birthday.
After Tian Sheng got the money, he immediately returned to Qi.
The next year, Liu Ze sent someone to tell Tian Sheng: "Don't you want to interact with me anymore?"
When Tian Sheng came to Chang'an, he did not go to see Liu Ze. Instead, he borrowed a large mansion and asked his son to see and serve Zhang Ziqing, the great emissary who was favored by Empress Lu.
A few months later, Tian Sheng's son invited Zhang Qing to his home as a guest. Zhang Qing personally prepared a banquet.
Zhang Qing agreed to go.
Tian Sheng hung up luxurious curtains and arranged exquisite utensils, just like a prince.
Zhang Qing was surprised when he saw it.
While the wine was in full swing, Tian Sheng asked the left and right to step back and persuaded Zhang Qing: "I have seen more than a hundred residences of princes and kings, all of whom were meritorious officials during the reign of Emperor Gaozu."
Now the Lu family has always helped Gaozu complete the great cause of unifying the world. His contribution is very great, and he is honored by his relative the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother was old and the Lu clan was weak. The Queen Mother wanted to make Lu Chan the king and the king of the vassals on behalf of the land.
The Queen Mother wants to speak out about this matter seriously, but she is afraid that the ministers will not agree.
Now that you are most favored by the Queen Mother and respected by the ministers, why not politely persuade the ministers to report this matter to the Queen Mother. The Queen Mother will definitely be happy.
After Zhu Lu is crowned king, all the princes will also be yours.
The Queen Mother wants to do this in her heart, but you are a minister. If you don't propose it quickly, I'm afraid disaster will befall you.
Zhang Qing agreed very much with this, so he politely persuaded the minister to report the matter to the Queen Mother.
When the Queen Mother went to court, she asked the ministers about this matter.
The ministers petitioned to establish Lu Chan as King Lu.
The Queen Mother gave Zhang Qing a thousand catties of gold, and Zhang Qing gave half of it to Tian Sheng.
Tian Sheng did not accept the gift, and took the opportunity to persuade Zhang Qing: "Lü Chan was crowned king, but the ministers were not completely convinced."
Now the Marquis of Yingling, Liu Ze, is a member of the Liu clan and serves as a general. He is the only one who is still dissatisfied.
Now you report to the Queen Mother and designate more than a dozen counties to make him king. He will get the throne and leave happily. The throne of the Lu family will be more consolidated.
Zhang Qing went to the palace to report the matter, and the Queen Mother thought it was right.
So Liu Ze, the Marquis of Yingling, was granted the title of King Langxie.
King Langxie and Tian Sheng went to the fiefdom.
Tian Sheng advised Liu Ze to leave quickly and not to stay.
As soon as they left Hangu Pass, the Queen Mother indeed sent people to chase and stop them, but Liu Ze had already left the pass, so the pursuers had to go back.
After the death of the Queen Mother, Langxie King Liu Ze said: The emperor is young, Zhu Lu controls the government, and the Liu family is lonely and weak.
So he led the army and planned with Qi King Liu Xiang to march westward, intending to kill the Lu family.
When he arrived in Liangdi, he heard that the imperial court had sent General Guan Ying to garrison troops in Xingyang, so Liu Ze returned to strengthen the defense of his western border, and then quickly rushed to Chang'an.
King Dai also happened to arrive from Dai.
The generals, ministers and King Langxie jointly supported King Dai as the emperor.
The emperor then moved Liu Ze to the title of King of Yan, returned Langxie to King Qi, and restored King Qi's original territory.
Liu Ze died in his second year as King of Yan, and his posthumous title was King Jing.
The throne was passed to his son Liu Jia, who became King Kang.
When the throne passed to Liu Ze's grandson Liu Dingguo, he committed adultery with his father, King Kang's concubine, and gave birth to a boy.
He also took his younger brother's wife as his concubine.
He also committed adultery with his three daughters.
Liu Dingguo planned to kill the Ying people, the magistrate of Feiru County. The Ying people and others reported Liu Dingguo's crimes. Liu Dingguo sent envoys to report, arrest and kill the Ying people under the pretext of other laws to silence him.
In the second year of Yuanshuo, the brothers of the Ying people once again wrote to report Liu Dingguo's ulterior scandal, and Dingguo's crimes were exposed.
The emperor ordered the ministers to discuss the case, and the ministers all commented: "Liu Dingguo acted like a beast, corrupted human relations, violated the laws of nature, and should be executed for his crime."
The emperor granted permission.
Liu Dingguo committed suicide, the feudal state was abolished and changed to a county.
Tai Shigong said: King Jing was granted the title of king because the Han Dynasty had just been established and the world had not yet been completely unified. Therefore, although Liu Jia was a distant relative of the Liu family, he was granted the title of king for his military exploits and held a powerful position between the Jiang and Huaihe Rivers.
Liu Ze was named king because he used power and intrigue to arouse the Lu family, so that Liu Ze could be king in the south for three generations.
Isn't it wonderful and great that things have been interfering with each other from the beginning!
