Emperor Jing's famous teacher, named Ziyuan, was the eldest son of Emperor Xuan.
Elegant and charming, calm and perseverant, with far-reaching strategies.
When he was young, he had a good reputation and was as famous as Xia Houxuan and He Yan.
He Yan often said: Sima Ziyuan is the one who can achieve great things in the world.
During the early years of Wei Jingchu, he served as a regular servant of Sanqi and was promoted to the rank of Central Protector for many times.
Formulate methods for selecting talents, promote people without exceeding their merits, and officials have no selfish feelings.
When Queen Xuanmu passed away, Emperor Jing was famous for his extreme filial piety in mourning.
When Emperor Xuan was about to kill Cao Shuang, he planned carefully and secretly with Emperor Jing alone. Emperor Wen didn't know what was going on and only told him the night before he was about to take action.
Afterwards, someone was sent to spy on him. Emperor Jing fell asleep as usual, but Emperor Wen could not sleep peacefully.
In the early morning, the troops gathered at Simamen. Emperor Jing was calm both inside and outside, and the arrangements were very strict.
Emperor Xuan said: This son is really good after all.
At the beginning, Emperor Jing secretly took in three thousand scholars who were not afraid of death and scattered them among the people. When they arrived, they gathered them together in one morning. No one knew where these people came from.
After the incident subsided, because of his meritorious service, he was granted the title of Marquis of Changping Township, with a population of 1,000 households, and was later granted the title of General of Wei.
When Emperor Xuan died, people who discussed politics said: Yi Yin is dead, and Yi Zhi will inherit the business. The emperor appointed Emperor Jing as the general of the Fu army to assist in government affairs.
In the spring and first month of the fourth year of Wei Jiaping's reign, he was promoted to general and granted the title of Shizhong. He held the title of Commander-in-Chief, commanded all the Chinese and foreign armies, and recorded affairs of the Shangshu.
Order the officials to recommend talents, clarify the hierarchy between the young and the elderly, sympathize with the poor and lonely, and clean up those who have been abandoned.
Zhuge Dan, Mu Qiujian, Wang Chang, Chen Tai, and Hu Zun were appointed governors of the four directions; Wang Ji, Zhou Tai, Deng Ai, and Shi Bao were in charge of the prefectures and counties; Lu Yu and Li Feng were in charge of elections; Fu Gu and Yu Song participated in making plans; Zhong Hui, Xia Houxuan, Wang Su, Chen Ben, Meng Kang, Tan Feng, and Zhang Ji participated in the court meetings. They were admired by all the people and respected inside and outside the court.
Occasionally, there were people who asked for changes in the system. Emperor Jing said: "As if you don't know anything, you obey the laws of God and do it. This is what the poet praises."
The rules and regulations of three generations of ancestors should be observed; unless there is a war, they cannot be changed at will.
In the summer and May of the fifth year, Zhuge Ke, the Taifu of Wu State, besieged Xincheng. The court was worried that he would divide his troops to invade Huaisi and planned to guard various waterway ports.
Emperor Jing said: Zhuge Ke had recently gained power in Wu State, and wanted to seek temporary benefits. He gathered his troops in Hefei, hoping that he would succeed by luck and had no energy to cause trouble in Qingxu.
Besides, there is not one waterway port. If there are more guards, more troops will be needed. If there are fewer guards, it will not be enough to defend against the enemy.
Zhuge Ke indeed concentrated his troops in Hefei, just as Emperor Jing had speculated.
Emperor Jing sent General Guanqiu Jian, the general of Zhendong, Sai Zhen, the governor of Nuosu, and others to resist the enemy.
Dan Qiu Jian and Sai Zhen requested to go out to fight. Emperor Jing said: Zhuge Ke went all out to penetrate our side and put the army in danger. Their sharp edge was difficult to withstand.
Besides, the new city is small and strong, making it difficult for enemy troops to attack.
So he ordered the generals to build high forts to defend.
After several months of stalemate, Zhuge Ke's siege force was exhausted, and more than half of his troops were killed or injured.
Emperor Jing ordered Governor Wen Lian to lead his elite troops to Heyu to intercept the enemy's retreat, and Wu Danjun led the generals as his successors.
Jiang prisoner fled out of fear. Sai Xun went up to attack and defeated the enemy army, killing more than 10,000 enemies.
In the spring and first month of the first year of the fifth year, the emperor and Zhongshu Ling Li Feng, the Queen's father Guanglu doctor Zhang Ji, Huangmen Supervisor Su Shuo, Yongning Department Ling Leqian, red servant Liu Zhili and others planned to use Taichang Xing Lou Sai to replace Emperor Jing to assist the government.
Emperor Jing secretly knew about this and sent Wang Xian, his minister, to greet Kuifeng in his car.
Kuifeng was forced to follow Wang Dong to see Ji Tong, who listed his sins.
Kuifeng knew that disaster was coming, so he insulted him wantonly.
Emperor Jing was angry and sent warriors to beat him to death with sword-tipped darts.
The arrest of Xia Houxuan, Zhang Ji and others reduced the number of three clans.
In March, he politely advised the emperor to depose Queen Zhang. The emperor then issued an edict saying: The treacherous official Li Feng and others are accustomed to listening to slander, using evil and evil, and secretly plotting evil.
The general inspector worshiped the laws of heaven and put them under the criminal law.
Zhou Bo surrendered to the Lu family, and Huo Guang captured Shangxuan's achievements, which are difficult to surpass.
9,000 additional households were added to the general's food estates, adding to the previous total of 40,000 households.
Emperor Jing declined and refused to accept.
The emperor felt deeply unsafe because Xia Houxuan and Zhang Ji were executed.
Liangcha was also worried about causing disaster and secretly planned to depose and re-establish the emperor, so he secretly advised the Empress Dowager Wei Yongning in a polite way.
In Jiaxu, the ninth month of autumn, the Empress Dowager issued an order: The emperor was too old to manage the complicated government affairs himself. He indulged in favors from the inner palace, indulged in lewdness, approached actors and actresses every day, indulged their ugly behavior, welcomed the concubine's family to stay in the inner palace, destroyed the morality between people, and disturbed the moral integrity of men and women.
He was coerced by a group of villains and was about to endanger the country, so he could not continue to worship the ancestral temple.
Emperor Jing convened a gathering of ministers for discussion, and said with tears: "The Queen Mother's order is this, what should we do with the royal family?"
The ministers all said: Yi Yin exiled Taijia to bring peace to Yin, Huo Guang deposed the king of Changyi to bring peace to Mo, weighed the priorities, stabilized the country, and brought peace to the world.
The Yin and Han dynasties did this in ancient times, and Ming Gong should do the same today. All matters today must be obeyed by Ming Gong's orders.
Emperor Jing said: Everyone has high expectations for me, how can I dare to evade them?
So he and all the ministers reported to the Queen Mother: "I heard that the emperor rescues and nourishes the people and makes the world stable for a long time."
The emperor was too old to manage the complicated government affairs himself, so he asked the young actors Guo Huai, Yuan Xin and others to expose their bodies and play lewd games every day.
She also dressed up as a coquettish woman from Liaodong under the watchful eye, and passers-by covered their eyes.
Linghu Jing, the merchant of the Qing Dynasty, admonished the emperor, but the emperor burned him with iron.
When the Queen Mother encountered the funeral of Lord Heyang, the Emperor laughed and entertained as usual.
Pang Xi, the Shang Cheng of the Qing Dynasty, advised the emperor, but the emperor did not listen.
The Queen Mother returned to the North Palace and killed Zhang Meiren. The Emperor was very resentful.
Pang Xi remonstrated, but the emperor was angry and shot Pang Xi with a slingshot.
Whenever documents were delivered, the emperor would not read them.
The Queen Mother ordered the Emperor to give lectures in Shiqian Hall, but the Emperor refused to comply.
He cannot carry on the royal line.
The minister requested that the emperor's seal be taken back according to the practice of Huo Guang in the Han Dynasty, and let him return to his fiefdom as the king of Qi.
The Empress Dowager accurately reported that the relevant officials used cattle, sheep, and pigs as sacrifices to write simple policies and report to the ancestral temple. King Qi boarded the royal attendant's car, and the ministers followed him to Xiyemen.
Emperor Jing cried and said: My ancestors have received special treatment from past dynasties. When the late emperor was dying, he sent Shao to support him. I feel ashamed of my heavy responsibility and cannot teach people to do good or correct their mistakes.
Dear ministers, if you want to use ancient laws and consider the long-term interests of the country, you would rather betray the emperor himself and sacrifice the royal ancestral temple.
So he sent envoys holding talismans to escort him, and lived in Chongmen, Hanoi, to kill Guo Huai, Yuan Xin and others.
On the same day, he discussed with the ministers how to establish a new king.
Emperor Jing said: There is no peace in the world today, and two enemy countries are vying for victory. The monarchs of the four seas must be wise and sage people.
Cao Ju, King of Pengcheng, was the son of Taizu. In terms of wisdom, he was benevolent, sage, and fair. In terms of age, he was the eldest brother in the royal family.
The emperor's position is of vital importance. Without his talents, he would not be able to pacify and save the world.
So he and his ministers reported to the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother believed that King Pengcheng was the uncle of the late emperor and was not in line with the order of the patriarchal system. Then the lineage of Liezu would never be inherited.
King Shuhai Ding, the younger brother of Emperor Ming, planned to make his son Cao Mao, the Duke of Gaogui Township.
Emperor Jing persisted in arguing but failed, so he followed the Queen Mother's order and sent people to Yuancheng to welcome Gaogui Xiang Gong as the emperor, and changed his reign to Zhengyuan.
When the emperor accepted the seal, he was lazy and raised his feet very high. Emperor Jing was worried when he heard about it.
When the great court meeting was about to be held, Emperor Jing taught the emperor: A wise king values ​​the beginning and respects the beginning with integrity. This is what the ancients were cautious about.
Tomorrow, facing the great court meeting, everyone will look at the emperor's dignified appearance, and the minister will listen to the sweet voice.
The Book of Songs says: What is shown to people is not frivolous and can be imitated.
"Book of Changes" says: If you say something good, someone thousands of miles away will respond.
Although the etiquette is thorough and complete, it should also be treated with respect and caution in order to be in line with the expectations of the world.
Guisi, the emperor issued an edict saying: I heard that a monarch who establishes a foundation must have capable ministers; an emperor who abides by established laws must also rely on ministers who can correct and assist.
Therefore, King Wen of Zhou and King Wu of Zhou continued to prosper by relying on Dantang and Chou Minister to receive the destiny, and King Danxuan relied on Shanlu to enjoy the performance of ZTE.
The general has virtues from generation to generation and assists the government in accordance with the weather.
The country suffered from dangers from heaven, and the royal family suffered many disasters. The King of Qi was on the throne and did not follow the laws.
The general fulfills justice and upholds loyalty, and comes to bring peace to China, to rectify all officials, and to take charge of common affairs.
The bandits and tyrants are destroyed internally, and the treacherous and rebellious ministers are suppressed externally. The sun is still in the west, and they are still toiling on state affairs, working day and night.
Moral prestige shines up and down, and meritorious deeds are spread in all directions.
Think deeply about grand discussions, first establish wise strategies, weigh the priorities, stabilize the country, and help me ascend to the throne, the ancestral temple will be peaceful, and all people will be happy and dependent.
Yi Zhi protects and governs the Yin State, and Gongdan An Ninglong is unable to surpass the general.
I give him a thumbs up.
People with high moral standards have a distinguished status, and people with great merits receive generous salaries. This is a truth that has been true from ancient times to the present.
The general was granted the title of Prime Minister, and 9,000 households were added to the settlement, adding to the previous total of 40,000 households; he was promoted to the title of Grand Governor, fake yellow iron, and he did not have to take small steps to enter the court. When reporting things, he did not need to state his name, but he could go to the palace with a sword and shoes; he was given five million in money and five thousand pieces of silk in recognition of his great achievements.
Emperor Jing resolutely resigned from the position of prime minister.
He also wrote a letter admonishing the emperor: Although the jade in Jingshan is beautiful, it cannot become a treasure without carving. Although Yan Hui and Ran You are talented and knowledgeable, they cannot expand their knowledge without learning.
Zhongni said: I am not a person who knows things from birth, but a person who loves ancient things and diligently explores them. All the monarchs of the five generations since Huang Xuan have followed these principles.
Zhuan Xu received education from Lu Yuan, and Gao Xin asked Bai Zhao. When King Cheng of Zhou came, he was assisted by Zhou Gongdan and Lu Wang, so he could distinguish the main themes of the chapters and sentences in the scriptures, and he was content with the right path and was happy with his career.
Like this, then the way of the king is revealed above, and the common people obey below.
The prosperous age when criminal law was put aside actually came from this.
We should follow the spirit of the ancestors who were not ashamed to ask questions, so that lectures and poems can be heard frequently, and the words of the classics can be stated around them every day.
At that time, the emperor loved luxury and extravagance, and Emperor Jing advised him: "When you first get involved in government affairs, you should advocate simplicity."
The emperor respectfully accepted it.
In November, white clouds fill the sky.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, a comet appeared in the dividing line between Wu and Chu and disappeared in the northwest sky.
Qiu Jian, the mother of the general Zhendong, and Wen Qin, the governor of Yangzhou, rebelled. Under the pretense of the Queen Mother's order, they sent a message to the county, set up an altar outside the west gate to swear an oath, and each sent four sons to serve as hostages in the state of Wu to ask for help.
In February, Mu Qiujian and Wenqin led 60,000 troops to cross the Huaihe River and march westward.
Emperor Jing gathered his ministers to plan the conquest. Most of the discussions in the court believed that generals could be dispatched to send troops. Wang Su, Shangshu Fu Gu, and Zhongshu Shilang Zhong Hui persuaded Emperor Jing to go out in person.
In Wuwu, Emperor Jing led more than 100,000 Chinese infantry and cavalry to conquer.
Traveling day and night, he summoned armies from all three parties and gathered in the countryside of Chen Xu in large numbers.
Jiashen was stationed at Chuqiao, and his mother Qiujian's generals Shi Zhao and Li Xu surrendered one after another.
Guanqiu Jian and Wen Qin moved their troops to Xiangcheng, and Emperor Jing sent Wang Ji, the governor of Jingzhou, to march and occupy Nandun to force Guanqiu Jian.
Emperor Jing built high barriers and waited for Shumian's army to gather.
The generals asked to march to attack Xiangcheng. Emperor Jing said: You only know one, but not the other.
The soldiers south of the Huaihe River had no intention of rebellion.
Moreover, Ceqiu Jian and Wen Qin wanted to follow the path of the political advisors and learn from the theories of Zhang Yi and Su Qin, thinking that the distant and near would definitely respond.
However, when the rebellion was launched, the people north of the Huaihe River did not comply, and Shi Zhao and Li Xu collapsed one after another.
Internally disobedient, externally betrayed, knowing that they must fail, the trapped beasts want a duel, and a quick fight is more to their liking.
Although the enemy will definitely be defeated, it will also hurt many people.
Besides, Mu Qiujian and others deceived the soldiers and were very cunning and fickle. If we stay with them for a while, the deception will naturally be exposed, and we can win without a fight.
So Governor Zhuge Dan was sent to lead the Yuzhou armies to march from Anfeng to Shouchun. General Hu Zundu, the General of the East Conquest, led the Qing and Xu armies to send troops between Qiao and Song Dynasties to cut off the rebels' retreat.
Emperor Ji stationed troops in Ruyang and sent Deng Aidu, the governor of Yanzhou, to lead the troops from Mount Tai to garrison Lejia to show weakness and lure the enemy.
Wen Qin was about to attack Deng Ai. Emperor Jing secretly sent troops and went straight to Lejia to meet Wen Qin.
Wen Qin's son Wen Yang, eighteen years old and the most courageous among the three armies, said to Wen Qin: While the opponent's footing is not stable, please go up to the city wall and beat the drum and shout, you can defeat the opponent.
Then he acted according to his plan and shouted three times but Wen Qin could not respond. Wenyang retreated and led his troops east together.
Emperor Liang said to his generals: Wen Qin has escaped.
Ordered to send elite troops to pursue Wen Qin.
All the generals said: Wen Qin has been on the battlefield for a long time, and Wen Yang is young and energetic. He led the army into Xiangcheng without defeat and will not escape.
Emperor Jing said: If you work hard at one moment, you will be weak again, and you will be exhausted after three times.
Sai Jin beat the drum three times, but Sai Biao didn't respond. Their momentum was exhausted. If they didn't escape, what were they waiting for?
Wen Qin was about to escape, but Wen Chou said: "We can't leave without first destroying the enemy's spirit."
So he and more than a dozen brave cavalry attacked the position of Emperor Jing's army. They were invincible, and then led the troops to retreat.
Emperor Jing sent the left commander Shi Sima Lian to lead eight thousand strong cavalry to pursue the enemy from the flank, and sent General Le Sui and other governors to lead the infantry to follow.
When they arrived in Shayang, they attacked Wenqin's military formation many times. The arrows they fired were as dense as rain, and Wenqin ran away with his shield on his back.
The enemy army was defeated and everyone threw down their weapons and surrendered. Wen Qin, his son and his men fled to Baoxi City.
When Dandanjian heard that Saifu was defeated, he abandoned everyone and fled to the south of the Huaihe River overnight.
Captain An Fengjin caught up with his mother Qiu Jian, killed him, and sent Dan Qiu Jian's head to Kyoto.
Sai Zhen then defected to the state of Cheng, and Huainan was pacified.
At first, Emperor Jing had a tumor on his eye and asked the doctor to remove it.
When Saizu attacked, Liangtong's eyes went in and out due to fright.
Afraid that the Sixth Army would panic, they covered their heads with a quilt. The pain was so unbearable that they bit the quilt to pieces, but no one around them knew about it.
In the leap month, the illness worsened, and Saitong was asked to take charge of the army.
He died in Xuchang in Xinhai at the age of forty-eight.
In February, Jitong's funeral carriage arrived in Kyoto from Zhudan. The emperor came to mourn in person in plain clothes.
Order the ministers to discuss the funeral arrangements.
Relevant officials discussed that Emperor Jing's loyalty had stabilized the country and his achievements had saved the world, so Huo Guang's precedent should be followed. The title of Grand Sima was added in front of the General, and fifty thousand households were added to the city, and Mi was given the title of Duke Wu.
Emperor Wen expressed his resignation and said: My late father did not dare to accept the courtesy of Prime Minister Xiang Guo Jiu Ming, and my late brother did not dare to accept the high position of Xiang Guo, all because Taizu once served as prime minister.
Now that the title of Mi is the same as that of Emperor Wu and Emperor Wen, it must be frightening.
In the past, Xiao He, Zhang Liang, and Huo Guang all contributed to saving the situation and assisting the monarch. Xiao He's nickname was Wen Zhong, Zhang Liang's nickname was Wencheng, and Huo Guang's nickname was Xuancheng. If you must use Wenwu as your nickname, please follow the precedents of Xiao He and others when adding gifts.
The emperor agreed to the edict and named Mi Zhongwu.
After the establishment of Jin State. The additional honorary title is King Jing.
Emperor Wu accepted the concession and was honored as Emperor Jing, the mountain mausoleum was called Junping, and the ancestral temple was called Shizong.
Emperor Wen, whose name is Zishang, is the half-brother of Emperor Jing.
In the second year of Wei Jingchu's reign, he was granted the title of Xincheng Rural Marquis.
In the early years of Zhengshi, he was appointed as the lieutenant general of Diannong in Luoyang.
It was the late period of Emperor Wei Ming's extravagant style. Emperor Wen exempted him from harsh and cumbersome conditions and did not take up farming time. The people were very happy.
He was transferred to serve as a regular attendant of Sanqi.
When the general Cao Shuang was conquering Shu, he appointed Emperor Wen as the general to conquer Shu. As Xia Houxuan's deputy, he sent troops to Luo Valley and stationed himself in Xingshi.
Shu general Wang Lin attacked Emperor Wen's camp at night, but Emperor Wen lay motionless.
Wang Lin retreated, and Emperor Wen said to Xia Houxuan: Fei Zhang occupied a dangerous position to resist and hold on. We can't fight if we advance, and we can't attack by force. We should return to the army as soon as possible and think about it later.
Cao Shuang and others led their troops to retreat, and as expected, Fei Zhang led his troops to pursue them straight to the Three Ridges. After a battle and many obstacles, the Wei army was able to pass.
So he returned to the court and paid homage to Yilang.
When Cao Shuang was executed, he led the people to defend the second palace. Due to his meritorious service, he gained an additional 1,000 households.
When Shu general Jiang Wei invaded Longxi, General Guo Huai sent troops from Chang'an to defend against the enemy.
Emperor Wen was promoted to the general of Anxi and held a festival, and he stationed troops in Guanzhong to control the military affairs.
Guo Huai attacked Jiang Wei's deputy general Ju'an in Qudi, and the outcome was indecisive for a long time.
Emperor Wen then marched to occupy the Great Wall and ran south to Luo Valley to confuse the enemy.
Jiang Wei was frightened and withdrew his troops to defend Nan Yin. Jushi's army cut off support and led everyone to surrender.
Emperor Wen was transferred to General Anshu and Chijie to guard Xuchang.
When the army attacked Wang Jun, Emperor Wen supervised the affairs of the armies in Huaibei and led the army to join forces in Xiangdi.
Three hundred households were added to the city, and they were temporarily granted gold seals and purple ribbons.
Soon he was promoted to governor, and he led Hu Zun, the general who conquered the east, and Zhuge Dan, the general who Zhendong, to attack the state of Wu and fought at Shuguan.
The two armies fought and were defeated, and they were convicted and lost the marquis.
Jiang Wei, the general of Shu, invaded Longxi again and threatened to attack Didao.
Emperor Wen was sent to temporarily serve as General of the Expedition to the West and stationed in Chang'an.
Chen Tai, the governor of Yongzhou, planned to occupy Didao before the enemy came. Emperor Wen said: Jiang Wei attacked the Qiang, took their hostages, gathered grain and grass to build a munitions depot, and then diverted the march to Zaojie. It was precisely because he wanted to settle the affairs of the Qiang tribe outside the wall and use it as future capital.
If we really want to attack Didao. How can you publicize the exposure and let outsiders know?
Now that he is threatening to send troops, he is planning to take action.
As expected, Jiang Wei burned the military camp and retreated.
Just when the Qiang and Hu tribes in Xinping rebelled, Emperor Wen defeated them and showed off his troops in Lingzhou. The enemies in the north were shocked and frightened, and the rebels surrendered.
Because of his meritorious service, he was again granted the title of Xincheng Rural Marquis.
When Gaogui Township was established as the king, because Saitong participated in the formulation of the strategy, he was granted the title of Gaodu Marquis and was granted the title of two additional households in the city.
When Tan Qiujian and Wen Qin rebelled, the army marched eastward. Emperor Wen served as the leader of the army and stayed behind to guard Luoyang.
When Emperor Jing became seriously ill, Emperor Wen went to visit him from Kyoto and was appointed General of the Guard.
After Emperor Jing died, the emperor ordered Emperor Wen to guard Xuchang, and Shangshu Su led the Sixth Army back to the capital.
Saitong adopted the strategy of attacking the bell box and led his army back.
When he arrived in Luoyang, he was promoted to the rank of general, and was added to the rank of attendant. He was in charge of all the Chinese and foreign armies, recorded the affairs of the ministers, assisted in the affairs of the court, and went to the palace wearing swords and shoes.
Emperor Wen resolutely refused to accept it.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Ju Ling's reign, he was granted the title of Grand Governor, and there was no need to give his name when performing duties.
In the sixth month of summer, he was granted the title of Duke of Gaodu, with a circumference of seven hundred miles, plus nine tins, an ax and cymbals, and the title of Grand Governor. He wore a sword and wore shoes to go to the palace.
And he firmly refused to accept it.
In autumn and August, Geng Shen added fake yellow iron and enfeoffed three more counties.
At the end of the fifth month in the summer of the second year, Zhuge Dan, the general of Zhendong, killed Luan Ji, the governor of Yangzhou, and caused trouble in the south. He sent his son Zhuge Liang to Wu as a hostage to ask for reinforcements.
The deliberation people requested that he be defeated quickly. Sai Tong said: Because Jiang Xi saw Dan Dan Jian's weak army and was quickly destroyed, he must have colluded with Wu State, which made him increase his troops and move slowly.
We should work together with all parties to defeat Zhuge Dan with complete victory.
So the above table says: In the past, when Ying Bu rebelled, Gao Dan of the Han Dynasty personally conquered it; when Kui Xiao rebelled, Guang Gen traveled to the west to conquer; and Liezu Ming Huangtong's chariots were frequently dispatched. These are all to stimulate publicity and show off the power of force.
Your Majesty should temporarily visit the battlefield in person so that the soldiers can rely on the emperor's reputation.
Now there are about 500,000 troops in the army. With more people attacking less people, they are invincible.
In the seventh month of autumn, the emperor and the empress dowager gathered together to recruit troops in Qing, Xu, Jing, and Yu. They also recruited some mobile troops from Guanzhong and gathered in Huaibei.
The army was stationed in Xiang, and Tingwei He Zhen was ordered to hold the talisman and go to Huainan to express comfort to the soldiers, affirm the loyalty of the rebellious people, and punish and reward them.
In Jiaxu, Emperor Wen marched to Qiutou.
The state of Wu sent more than 30,000 men including Wen Qin, Tang Zi, Quan Duan, and Quan Tang to rescue Zhuge Dan. The generals met him and were unable to resist.
General Li Guang refused to advance in the face of the enemy, and the Taishan prefect often claimed to be ill and refused to go out, so he killed them all in public.
In August, Wu general Zhu Yi led more than 10,000 troops. He left the baggage in Dulu and arrived at Lijing with light troops.
Shi Bao, the supervisor of the army, and Zhou Tai, the governor of Yanzhou, resisted the Wu army, but Zhu Yi withdrew.
Hu Lie, the governor of Taishan, sent out a surprise attack on Dulu and burned the Wu army's grain and fodder vehicles.
Shi Bao and Zhou Tai attacked Zhu Yi again and defeated the enemy.
Zhu Yi's remaining soldiers were so hungry that they ate kudzu leaves and fled. The Wu people killed Zhu Yi.
Emperor Wen said: Zhu Yi's failure to reach Shouchun was not his fault, but the Wu people killed him precisely to apologize to Shouchun, thus strengthening Zhuge Dan's belief in defending the city and making him still hope to rescue troops.
If Zhuge Dan was not like this, he would break out and fight to the death for a while.
Or they think that the army cannot besieged for a long time, so they cut back on food and look forward to other changes.
It is estimated that the situation of the enemy soldiers cannot fall into these three categories.
Now we should confuse them in many ways and prevent them from escaping. This is a strategy for winning the war.
So he ordered the encirclement to be closed, and sent the sick and weak in batches to Huaibei to obtain supplies. They opened a warehouse and distributed soybeans to the sergeants, three liters per person.
Wen Qin was really happy when he heard the news.
Emperor Wen even showed that his troops were weak and used counter-questioning tactics many times, threatening that Wu's reinforcements were coming soon.
Zhuge Dan and others felt free to eat and drink as they pleased, and soon there was a shortage of food in the city.
Shi Bao and Wang Ji jointly requested an attack. Emperor Wen said: Zhuge Dan's rebellion did not happen overnight. He gathered food to repair the garrison, colluded with the people of Wu, and thought he was enough to occupy Huainan.
Since Wen Qin is helping evil, he will not escape easily.
If we rush to attack now, it will damage the strength of the mobile troops.
Foreign invaders suddenly arrive and you are surrounded by enemies. This is a dangerous road.
Now three rebels are gathered together in an isolated city, and God may cause them to be killed at the same time.
We should use a long-term strategy to contain the enemy, and we only need to hold on to three sides.
If the enemy comes from overland, the rations will be low. We can use the lightly equipped and fast cavalry to cut off their transit transportation and defeat the foreign enemy without engaging in combat.
If the foreign enemy is defeated, Wen Qin and others will surely become prisoners.
Quan Yun's mother, the daughter of Sun Quan, offended the state of Wu, so Quan Duan's nephews Quan Zhang and Quan Yi came to seek refuge with their mother.
Quan Jing, Quan Yi's elder brother, was in Shouchun at the time. He adopted Zhong Hui's plan and forged letters from Quan Zhang and Quan Yi to deceive Quan Jing.
The five Quan Jing brothers led their men to surrender, causing great panic in Shouchun City.
In the spring of the third year of the first month of Renyin, Zhuge Dan, Wen Qin and others went out to attack the besieging army. The armies met and defeated them.
At first, Zhuge Xiu and his father were in harmony with each other, but when they were in a difficult situation, they became suspicious.
It happened that Wen Qin and Zhuge Dan had different opinions when discussing matters, so Zhan Jiangxi killed Sai Fu with a knife.
Sai Zhan's son Sai Zhan attacked Zhan Jiangdan, but failed, so he left the city and surrendered.
He was made a general, made a marquis, and sent Wen Yang around the city to call him.
Emperor Wen saw that the men holding bows in the city did not release arrows, so he said to the generals: "We can attack the city."
In February Yiyou, he attacked the city and captured it. He killed Zhuge Dan and exterminated the three tribes.
The Wu generals Tang Zi, Sun Man, Sun Mi, Xu Shao and others led their subordinates to surrender, commending them with titles and titles, and providing relief to those who were hungry and sick.
Some people said that Wu soldiers would definitely not serve Wei, and requested that they be buried alive.
Emperor Wen said: Even if they escape back to Yuxi, it just shows the generosity of our country in the Central Plains.
So they migrated to Sanhe.
In April of summer, when he returned to the capital, Emperor Wei ordered Qiutou to be renamed Wuqiu in recognition of martial arts.
In the fifth month, the emperor enfeoffed eight counties in Bingzhou including Taiyuan, Shangdang, Xihe, Lenuo, Shiyu, Yadan, Danmaggot's Mi, and Zhihuan, with a radius of 700 miles. He granted Saiyi the title of Duke of Jin, granted him nine tins, entered the palace as the prime minister, and set up an official office in Zhixi.
Saitong resigned nine times before giving up.
So he added 10,000 households and collected taxes from three counties. His sons without titles were all made marquis.
In the seventh month of autumn, the emperor was asked to appoint the descendants of famous ministers of the previous dynasty and those who had made great achievements, and appointed them according to their talents.
In the summer and June of the fourth year, Jingzhou was divided and two governors were set up. Wang Ji guarded Maiying and Bao guarded Xiang District.
Gen Bao was appointed as the governor of Laozhen, Qiang was appointed the governor of Han, and Qun was appointed the governor of Qu, who was responsible for supervising all military affairs. In the summer and April of the first year of the fifth year of Jiji, the emperor ordered to give Emperor Wen the salary for his previous title, but he declined and refused to accept it.
The emperor was uneasy because Emperor Wen had assisted in government affairs for three generations and did not issue the decrees himself. He was also worried about being deposed and humiliated, so he would go to the main hall in person to summon officials to banish and depose Emperor Wen.
On the night of Wuzi in the fifth month, he sent his servants Li Zhao and others to launch troops at Lingyuntai. He called Wang Shen, the servant, Wang Ye, the minister Wang Jing, and took out the yellow silk Shao book in his arms to read to them. They were under martial law and waited for dawn.
Wang Chen and Wang Ye quickly reported to Emperor Wen, who summoned the guard Jia Chong and others to make preparations.
Knowing that the incident was leaked, the emperor led his men to attack the Prime Minister's Mansion, claiming that there was rebellion and wanted to punish anyone who dared to act rashly and kill the entire clan.
The soldiers in the Prime Minister's Mansion stopped and did not dare to fight. Maichong scolded the generals and said: "Sima Gong supports you people just for today!"
The prince, Cheng Ji, took out his weapon and attacked the chariot, stabbing the emperor from the back. The emperor died in the chariot.
Emperor Wen summoned all officials to discuss the incident, but his servant Chen Tai was not present.
Emperor Wen sent his uncle Xunjie to pick him up in a car and lead him into a secret room. Emperor Wen said to him: Uncle Xuan, what will the world do to me?
Chen Tai said: Only by cutting Jia Chong in half can he not apologize to the world.
Emperor Wen said: Please consider other methods.
Chen Tai said: I only see the best strategy, but not the second best.
So he blamed Chengji and killed him.
The Queen Mother ordered: "In the past, the king of Han Changyi was deposed as a commoner because of his crimes. This man should also be buried with the courtesy of a commoner, so that both inside and outside the court will know what he has done."
He killed Wang Jing, the minister, because he was disloyal to himself.
Wushen, Emperor Wen reported: The late noble countryman led his soldiers and horses, drew swords and beat drums and rushed towards my house. I did not dare to use force to fight, so I immediately ordered the soldiers not to hurt anyone. Anyone who disobeyed the order should be dealt with according to military law.
Prince Chengji, the younger brother of Cavalry Governor Cheng Chou, rushed into the army formation and killed the noble countryman, killing him.
I know the moral integrity of a minister and should be loyal to death; I serve the righteousness of the monarch and dare not avoid disaster.
The changes that happened before happened suddenly, and the disaster was like an arrow on the string. I really wanted to hand over my life and wait for death, and let fate decide.
However, considering that this plot is to endanger the empress dowager and subvert the ancestral temple.
I am worthy of being the head of the ministers, and the most important thing is to stabilize the country, so I kept telling my sincerity and was not allowed to approach the emperor's carriage.
Cheng Ji rushed into the battle, causing a big change. I was sad, painful and regretful, and my internal organs were torn apart.
Cheng Ji violated the monarch and disturbed the law. Even if he was sentenced to death, he could not atone for his crime, so he captured his family members and handed them over to Tingwei.
The Queen Mother obeyed and destroyed the three clans of Chengji.
After discussing with the ministers, Cao Huang, the son of Cao Yu, the king of Yan, was appointed emperor.
In June, the year was changed.
In Bingchen, the emperor was promoted to Emperor Wen as the prime minister, and was granted the title of Duke of Jin. Ten more counties were added, and Jiuxi was awarded as before. Those uncles, brothers, nephews who had not yet been ennobled were granted the title of Tinghou, and were given tens of millions of money and ten thousand pieces of silk.
Emperor Wen resolutely resigned before giving up.
In November of winter, Xiao Shen, the governor of Jiyang of Wu State, wrote to General Genbao of Zhendong, pretending to surrender and requesting support.
Emperor Wen knew that he was cheating, so he asked Shi Bao to welcome him on the surface and make preparations secretly.
In the autumn and August of the second year of Jiayin, the emperor sent Taiwei Gaorou to grant the official seal of the state to Emperor Wen, and sent Sikong Zheng Chong to give the mao soil and nine tins to the Duke of Jin to symbolize the enfeoffment. Emperor Wen resolutely refused.
In the summer and April of the third year, Su Shen came to offer arrows, stone pans, bows, armor, mink skins, etc., and the emperor ordered them to be delivered to the general's palace.
In the spring and February of the fourth year of Ding Chou, the emperor appointed Sai Tong again as before, but resolutely resigned.
In March, an edict was issued, ordering the general's office to add a Sima to serve as a middleman, leaving ten people behind.
In the summer, General Saihu attacked Xingli, so he planned with everyone: Since Shouchun was pacified, there has been no war for six years. Soldiers are trained, weapons are repaired, and preparations are made to destroy the two enemy countries.
If you plan to capture Wu Li, you must build warships. Dredging the river channel would require more than tens of millions of manpower, which would take more than 100,000 people and more than 100 days.
Besides, the low and humid terrain in the south will definitely produce plague diseases.
Now we should attack Shu first. After three years, we can go down the river from Danshu and attack by land and water. This is the situation of destroying Lu Pingding and swallowing the Korean annexation ball.
It is calculated that there are 90,000 Xingli warriors, and no less than 40,000 are stationed in Chengdu and guarding other counties. This leaves only 50,000 troops.
If Chaoxiong is entangled in Chasheng, so that he cannot take care of the east, his troops will be directed at the strong cauldron, attack from an empty place, and sneak attack Hansheng.
If they occupy the city and defend the danger, their forces will be scattered, and it will be difficult to care for each other if they are separated from the head and the tail.
He led a large army to bloodbath the city and dispersed his elite troops to occupy the countryside. The grasshoppers had no time to defend themselves and could not protect themselves at first.
Based on Liu Su's ignorance, coupled with the fact that the border city was breached and the female family members of the officials in the court were shocked and frightened, Xingli's demise can be speculated on.
General Zhengxi thought that there was no chance to take advantage of it, and repeatedly stated his different opinions.
Saitong was worried about this, so he sent the chief bookkeeper to serve as Deng Ai's Sima, so as to inform him, Shao Tomb Zai accepted the order.
So he recruited 180,000 soldiers from all over the country and sent soldiers from Qu Jin to attack Chaiwei. Zhuge Xu, the governor of Yongzhou, sent troops from Qishan to station in Wujie to cut off Jiang Wei's retreat. General Zhong Hui of Zhenxi led former general Li Fu and Hu Lie, the protector of Shu, to attack Hanzhong from Luo Valley.
In autumn and August, troops were sent out in Luoyang, officers and soldiers were rewarded greatly, and they lined up to swear an oath.
General Deng Dun suggested that the Shu Kingdom should not be conquered, and Emperor Wen killed him to show the public.
In September, Wang Qi, the prefect of Tianshui, was sent to attack Jiang Wei's camp, Qian Hong, the prefect of Longxi, was sent to block the front, and Yang Xin, the prefect of Jincheng, rushed to Gansong.
Zhong Hui divided his troops into two groups and attacked from Xiegu. He sent Li Fu to surround Wang Han in Lecheng, and sent general Yi Kai to attack Jiang Bin in Seoul.
Zhong Hui went straight to Yang'an, and the guard Hu Lie captured Guancheng.
After Jiang Wei heard about it, he led his troops to retreat. Wang Qi pursued and defeated Jiang Wei at Qiangchuan.
Jiang Weiyu, Zhang Yi and Liao Hua joined forces to guard Jiange, while Zhong Hui attacked Jiange.
In the tenth month of winter, because the princes presented their spoils of war, the emperor reiterated his previous orders and said: I am not of high virtue, so I inherited the throne and continued the great achievements of my ancestors.
When encountering difficulties in the country, we cannot carry forward the teachings of our ancestors.
In the past, treacherous ministers have rebelled and caused rebellion many times, and enemies from all directions have bullied our country. I am very afraid that the country will fall, thereby destroying the great cause of three generations of ancestors.
He is virtuous, behaves wisely, is knowledgeable and knowledgeable, displays martial arts and literary talents, and serves as the emperor's protector for generations, assisting the royal family.
He has been running around in the wind and rain, participating in battles and conquests, and working hard for the royal family for more than 20 years.
Assisting the predecessors, making decisions on major policies many times, stopping misbehavior and stabilizing the country.
When Guanqiu Jian and Wen Qin rebelled, the Duke pacified and rescued the people, and was ordered to raise troops. He commanded the army well, so both sides of the Huaihe River were calm and peaceful.
After that, Bashu invaded many times, and the west was uneasy. The Duke came up with ingenious plans and gave instructions, and won the victory thousands of miles away.
In the battle of Duangu, he seized the opportunity to win a complete victory, beheaded the generals and removed the flag, and killed tens of thousands of enemies.
Sun Jun disrupted the Central Plains and invaded Xu Fang. The public chariot set out with its might first. Before the yellow cymbals were opened, the enemy was already scurrying.
Sun Yi had grievances and was suspicious of himself. The Duke's profound analysis was like a mirror shining from afar, and his miraculous strategies could discern the subtleties. People from far away obeyed him, so he was awarded elite soldiers to do his best in the army.
When Zhuge Dan committed the heinous crime of rebellion and raised his troops in Yangchu, Wen Qin and Tang Zi evaded punishment and colluded with Zhuge Dan, leading the rebels into Shouchun. They boldly resisted the king's order by relying on the dangers of the Huaihe River and mountains.
The father-in-law wears armor, respectfully carries out the punishment of heaven, has mysterious strategies, makes wise decisions, and obeys the laws of the sun.
Unexpected soldiers attacked fiercely, so Zhu Yi was destroyed; he used magical changes to capture the opportunity of fighting, so Quan Cong obeyed; he put down the turmoil and attacked Hunmu, and even the high wall could not hold it.
It also includes the grand strategy of the Nine Expeditions and explores the victory or defeat of the war. By being good at fighting but not bellicose, the enemy will be annihilated or dispersed; the battle flag will not need to be waved twice, and the chief culprit will lose his head.
Recruit the generals who surrendered to Wu and capture the fleeing criminals.
Some surrendered, and some obeyed the orders of Cixi's subordinates. One hundred thousand people were captured and killed, and their corpses piled up in mountains.
It wiped away the previous shame of the ancestral temple and saved the hardships of all the people.
The borders were cleared, and the prestige was extended to Wu Hui, so he put away his weapons and stabilized the territory of our country. There was no unrest among the ghosts and gods in heaven and earth.
In the past, the royal family suffered a disaster, and unexpected events occurred inside the White House. Fortunately, thanks to the Duke's spirit, the family survived the hardship.
The ancestral temple turned from danger to safety, and the country moved from defeat to peace.
The public's loyalty is as high as the emperor's, and his achievements are as high as the heaven and the earth.
Therefore, he searched for ancient teachings, examined classics, and appointed the duke to be the prime minister of the country. His status was higher than that of other princes. The areas that were established in ancient times were enfeoffed to the princes to compare them with each other, so as to serve as the pillars and barriers of the royal family.
However, the Duke was very humble and gave in, resolutely refusing his orders, as many as eight or nine times.
I am afraid that I have violated the virtue of humility, suppressing etiquette, bending the system, and displaying my public ambition. It has been four years since then.
On the one hand, it undermines the original code of enfeoffment, and on the other hand, it violates the ardent expectations of the people.
The Duke is solemn and respectful to the king's laws, expounds the great truth, advocates simplicity, saves the cost of corvee labor, works in agriculture and encourages farmers, and the Kyushu region is prosperous and stable.
The elderly feel the virtue of reverence and support, widowers and widowers receive mercy and compassion, the wind of benevolence and righteousness flourishes in the Central Plains, and the spread of kindness spreads to far away places.
Therefore, those who conquered the barbarians of Xirong, the barbarians of the south and Beidi, those who were violent, cunning, greedy, and fierce, and had been bandits and enemies for generations, all felt benevolence, justice, and kindness, and knocked on the door to rely on them. Some obeyed orders to pay tribute, and some asked for the establishment of government offices.
Outside the Nine Servers, people from remote areas, places rarely visited by modern people, came across the ocean to pay tribute and encourage Wang De. There were more than 8.7 million people who came before and after.
There is no one who is disobedient in the remote corners of the world; even travelers from the Western Regions pay tribute from afar, and the meaning has not gone beyond this meaning despite repeated translations.
Thinking about assisting my emperor, rectifying all nations, thinking about pacifying foreign lands, and pacifying all directions.
Because Yongshu had not yet surrendered and the barbarians were still causing chaos, the public devoted himself to planning, making decisions on his own, reorganizing the army, and managing armaments.
Choose to train the generals, teach them the strategies that have been planned, and then start to enter the realm of thieves and bandits, follow the weather, and destroy and capture them.
The furious enemies fled north, their heads and tail disintegrated in terror, their leaders were captured, and their cities were washed with blood.
Bahan was frightened, the dark clouds at the source of the Yangtze River disappeared, and everything was arranged properly, all in this move.
The merits of the public rescuers from all over the world, coupled with virtue, can indeed lead hundreds of officials to manage various government affairs.
The public attaches great importance to the five constant principles to promote benevolence and righteousness, and enlarges the six classics to illustrate the ancient teachings.
Respectful day and night, hardworking and humble in the morning and evening, even if Shang's father assisted King Wen and King Wu, and Duke Zhou worked diligently in the royal family, he could not surpass the Duke.
In the past, the former kings selected virtues, promoted the princes, divided the capital, measured the fields, and divided the square and circle system into five grades.
This enfeoffed territory was used as a barrier and a wing, so that Fu Zuo could be passed down for centuries.
Therefore, Qilu's fiefdom was the largest in the Zhou Dynasty, with mountains, rivers and wilderness, and the capital covered an area of ​​700 miles. The institutions, regulations, and systems were different from those of other princes.
When King Hui and King Xiang died, Duke Huan and Duke Wen received the courtesy of Jiuxi Ceming for his role in protecting and supporting him, all in order to promote great virtue and set an example for future generations.
The merits of the duke surpassed those of the previous dynasties, but the rewards were not in accordance with the old rules. He declined the title of fief many times, and even felt regretful. How could the duke be so humble that he violated the rules for a long time?
Today, there are ten counties in Taiyuan, including Shangdang, Xihe, Leping, Xinxing, and Yanmen in Bingzhou, Hedong, Pingyang, and Hongnong in Sizhou, and Fengyi in Yongzhou. They extend to Hua in the south, Xing in the north, Shu to Hu, and the Yellow River in the west, with a total radius of 700 miles. They are all the land of the Jin State. Uncle Tang accepted the land. He has been the leader of the alliance for generations and actually manages the Central Plains to follow his past responsibilities.
Therefore, a piece of land was given to the Duke and he was granted the title of Duke of Jin.
The order envoy Chijie, concurrently Situ, and Sili Xiaowei Yi were awarded official seals and policies, with the gold animal talisman ranked first to fifth, and the bamboo envoy talisman ranked first to tenth.
Give Gongxuan soil, wrap it with white grass, and establish your feudal state, thus forever serving as a barrier for the Wei royal family.
In the past, when Qie Gongchou was the Duke, he always entered the court as a protector as a prince.
In modern times, Xiao He, the humble prince, assisted in governing the Han Dynasty as the prime minister.
This is a system that follows the weather and is also appropriate in terms of etiquette and law.
Today, the Duke's official position is promoted to Prime Minister, and a green ribbon is added.
He also added Gong Jiuxi to listen to his orders.
Because the public thought about promoting the great road, respected the laws and regulations, followed the laws, set an example, and became a role model in the world, he was given a chariot and eight stallions each for Dage and Rongji.
The Duke's conduct conforms to the heaven and the earth, he respects the destiny given by Heaven, farmers return to their fields, and agriculture and breeding are prosperous. Therefore, the Duke is given the crown robe and red sandals.
The public spreads outstanding virtues, uses humility to benefit subordinates, respects integrity, considers loyalty and obedience, and makes officials and people harmonious and faithful. Therefore, the public is given the joy of Xuanxuan and the dance of Liuyi.
The public town calms and stabilizes the universe, the auxiliary wings spread the prestige and enlightenment, the overseas people return to obey, the distant people sincerely rely on it, the foreign land admires the righteousness, and the princes obey, so the public red painted door is given to the residence.
The duke chose to measure the talents, search for capable men, and promoted many people to the ranks of officials in our dynasty. Therefore, he was given the honor to accept his Majesty and ascend to the palace.
The Duke was solemn, respectful and reverent, and had pacified the four kingdoms, curbed the tyranny of the enemy invaders, and prevented the rise of harsh cruelty. Therefore, he was given three hundred brave warriors.
The public punishment is clear and prudent, fair and not excessive, demonstrates the power of heaven, and kills rebels. Therefore, the public is given one of the horses and the iron.
The duke rectified the six armies, presided over the expedition, and those who violated the destiny and went beyond the right path were killed. Therefore, he was given a red bow, a hundred red arrows, ten brigade bows, and a thousand shaft arrows.
Gong is respectful to his ancestors, his filial piety can serve as an example, he is extremely sincere and sincere, and the gods know it, so he bestows the Gong's cabinet with a 鬯卣 and a Guizan.
The establishment of the Jin government was all based on the previous system. How admirable!
You should obey my orders respectfully, carry forward the ancient teachings and regulations, let the light shine in all directions, continue your virtue forever, and display my beautiful orders.
The ministers, generals and schools went to Emperor Wen's house to announce the decree, and Emperor Wen politely declined.
Sikong Zheng Chong led all the officials to advise Emperor Wen: "Seeing the good order coming prominently, hearing Ming Gong's firm resignation, Zheng Chong and others admired him, he is really sincere."
We believe that the system established by the sage kings has been the same for hundreds of generations, praising virtue and rewarding merit. This has its origins.
In the past, Yi Yin was a domestic slave of the Xin family. Once Sasuke made soup, he had the title of A Heng.
Relying on the established national power and the already stable foundation, Duke Zhou built his glorious mansion in Qufu and covered Guimeng.
Lu Shang was a fisherman from Pixi River. As soon as he waved his flag, he sealed the land in Yingqiu.
Since then, the situation of meager achievements and generous rewards has been unbearable. However, sages still regard this as a good talk.
Moreover, since he was the Prime Minister of the previous dynasty, he has been virtuous from generation to generation, assisting the Wei royal family and bringing peace to the world. There is no malpractice in the government and no complaints from people.
In the past, Ming Gong conquered Lingzhou in the west, bordering the desert to the north and west of Yuzhong. When he heard the news, he was frightened and obeyed.
He captured the generals of Hejian and captured tens of thousands of elite soldiers. His majesty covered the South China Sea, and his reputation shocked Mitsukoshi. The world was healthy and peaceful, and evil spirits were suppressed.
Therefore, the customs of the time were awe-inspiring, and the barbarians presented dance and music.
So the Holy Master read the old rituals from ancient times and built a glorious mansion for the public feudal state, which was prominent in Taiyuan.
Ming Gong should obey the imperial edict and accept this great blessing so that the relationship between heaven and man can be harmonious.
The first meritorious service is as glorious as that; the land's blessings are as grand as this.
Rewards are consistent with merit, and there is no excess or violation.
From then on, in the expedition, we could cross the Yangtze River in court clothes, sweep away Wu Hui, and use the source of the Yangtze River as a frontier to the west to offer sacrifices to Minshan Mountain in the distance.
Return to the army and gather your troops to command the world. There will be no one who is disobedient in the distance and no one who is not in order nearby.
Let the virtues of the Wei Dynasty shine in the Jin Dynasty; the Ming Gong's greatest achievements surpass those of Qi Huan and Jin Wen.
Facing the sea to express gratitude to Wen Bo, and climbing Jishan Mountain to salute Xu You, isn't it a grand event?
It's very fair. Who can compare with me, so why should I be humble?
Only then did Emperor Wen accept the emperor's gift.
In November, Deng Ai led more than 10,000 people from Yinping to Jiangyou, where he defeated Shu general Zhuge Zhan in Mianzhu, killed Zhuge Zhan, and had his head revealed to the public.
Marching into Luoxian County, Liu Chan surrendered.
The emperor ordered the Duke of Jin to take charge of everything as the prime minister, so Emperor Wen sent a decree to remove himself from the titles of Shizhong, Grand Governor, and Lu Shangshu.
Please appoint Deng Ai as Taiwei and Zhong Hui as Situ.
Zhong Hui conspired to rebel, so he secretly sent people to speak ill of Deng Ai.
In the first month of spring of the first year of Xianxi, a chariot was sent to arrest Deng Ai.
In Yichou, Emperor Wen and the Emperor marched westward and were stationed in Chang'an.
At that time, all the princes were in Yecheng. They ordered Zhonglang to be the military officer of Shantao March and guard in Ye. He sent the guard Jia Chongzhijie to supervise the troops and guard Hanzhong.
Zhong Hui then rebelled in Shu. The supervisor Wei Gan and the right general Hu Lie attacked Zhong Hui and killed him.
At the beginning, when Zhong Hui was attacking Shu, Shao Ti, a subordinate of Xicao, told Emperor Wen: Zhong Hui is difficult to trust and cannot be ordered to send troops.
Emperor Wen smiled and said: "We are in control of conquering Shu, but everyone says no, only Zhong Hui agrees with me."
After the reduction of Shu, the soldiers in the Central Plains missed their homeland. The people left behind in Shu were still shocked and fearful. Even if they had the intention to rebel, they were powerless.
The result was just as Emperor Wen had predicted.
In Bingchen, Emperor Wen returned from Chang'an.
On Jimao in the third month, Emperor Wen was promoted to the title of king, and the fiefdoms were added together with the previous twenty counties.
At the end of the fifth month of summer, the emperor ascended to the throne of Wuyang Xuanwenhou as King Xuan of Jin, and Wuyang Zhongwuhou became King of Jinjing.
In the seventh month of autumn, Emperor Wen asked Sikong Xunjie to formulate etiquette, Jia Chong, the Central Protector of the Army, to amend the law, Shangshu Pushe Pei Xiu to agree on the official system, and Chief Taibao Zheng Chong to make a ruling.
The establishment of fifth-class titles began.
In the tenth month of winter, on Dinghai, I requested you to send Xu Shao, the prime minister of Wu, to join the army, and Cao Sun, the general attendant of Sanqi, to serve as an envoy to the state of Wu. They would inform Sun Hao of the pacification of Shu and present horses, brocades and other items as a demonstration of severity and appeasement.
On Bingwu, the emperor appointed Sima Yan, the Marquis of Xinchang Township, Fujun, as the crown prince of the Jin Dynasty.
On the first day of the second spring of the second year, Quji County presented a spirit turtle to the Prime Minister's Mansion.
In the fourth month of summer, Sun Hao sent Ji Zhi to hire him and give him local specialties.
In May, the emperor ordered Emperor Wen's crown to be decorated with twelve stars, established the emperor's banner, and established the etiquette of the police when entering and exiting. He rode a gold-rooted chariot, drove six horses, spared five o'clock auxiliary chariots, set up Yunhan for machetes, eight hundred for music and dance, and four columns for orchestra chimes. His status was higher than that of King Yan.
The princess is regarded as the queen, the prince is regarded as the prince, and the titles of the prince, queen, and grandson are all the same as the emperor's etiquette.
Emperor Wen of the People's Republic of China petitioned Emperor Wen to request exemption from the cumbersome and detailed rules of the imperial palace and the regulations that were inconvenient to implement.
The Jin State established the official positions of Yushi Dafu, Shi Zhong, Chang Shi, Shangshu, Zhong Lingjun, and General Wei.
In the eighth month of autumn and Xinmao, Emperor Wen died in the main hall at the age of fifty-five.
In September Guiyou, he was buried in Chongyang Mausoleum and was named King Wen.
Emperor Wu accepted the abdication and added the title of Emperor Wen, and the temple was called Taizu.
Shi Chen said: Shizong established his foundation with strategies, and Taizu accomplished things with his talents.
Following the traces of the Yin Dynasty, their ambition to destroy the Shang Dynasty goes further, and dividing the world into three parts is their achievement.
When it comes to crossing the sword to eliminate the danger of war, crossing the Huaihe River to quell the war, and the resentment between the emperor and ministers of Tonggong, some people cannot bear it.
If famous ministers could be tolerated and the Shangshu Province could recruit them, then the Duke of Zhou would be nostalgic for this era, and the Wuhui of Wei would be proud of this period.
Use Xuanxuan's band to develop Nanyang, learn from Zhi's group, and claim vassal status in the north.
How great is a person who can embrace God’s will and human affairs!
Isn't it difficult to be a prince under an emperor?
Praise: Shizong succeeded Emperor Xuan, and the country's political power has not yet been divided.
Three thousand celebrities followed him.
Taizu's power was extremely powerful for a while, and Lingguan was pacified.
Although he took action against the bandits, he was ultimately charged with regicide.
