◆Zhuomao Biography: Zhuomao, courtesy name Zikang, was a native of Wan, Nanyang County.
Both his father and grandfather were officials and county guards.
Zhuomao studied in Chang'an during the reign of Emperor Yuan. He studied "Poetry", "Li" and Calendar under Dr. Jiang Weng. He exhausted his teacher's scholarship and was called Tongru.
Tolerant and respectful in nature.
Although his behavior and talents are different from Zhuo Mao's, they both admire and associate with him.
At first, he was recruited as an official in the prime minister's palace. From Kong Guang, Kong Guang called him an elder.
Once on a trip, someone recognized his horse.
Zhuomao asked: How long has your horse been lost?
The man replied: It has been lost for more than a month.
Zhuomao's horse had been with him for several years. He knew that he had admitted his mistake, but he untied the horse and gave it to him. He drove the cart away, and turned back to the man and said: If this horse is not yours, I hope you can take it to the Prime Minister's Mansion and return it to me.
Later, the horse owner found his lost horse, so he sent Zhuomao's horse to the Prime Minister's Mansion to return it to him and kowtow to apologize.
This is how Zhuomao has no disputes with others.
Later, he was elected as a minister with Confucianism, served in Huangmen, and moved to Mi County as magistrate.
He works diligently and conscientiously in his duties, treats the people as his sons, practices good governance and teaches others, speaks no evil words, and the officials and the people love him and cannot bear to bully him.
Some people once said that the chief of the pavilion under Zhuomao once accepted his gifts of rice and meat. Zhuomao avoided his subordinates and asked him, "Did the pavilion chief comply with your request, or did you accept it because you had something to tell him?"
Or was it given to him because you usually felt that he was kind to you? The man said: I gave it to him myself.
Zhuo Mao said: You gave it to him and he accepted it, why did he say it out loud?
The man said: I heard that a wise king can make people not afraid of officials, and officials will not take people's property.
Now I'm afraid of the officials, so I gave him something. Since the chief of the pavilion has accepted it, that's why I said it.
Zhuo Mao said: You are an ignorant person.
The reason why humans are more valuable than animals is because they have benevolence and know how to treat each other with respect.
Nowadays, the elders of the neighborhood even give away food. This is the reason why humans are close to each other, not to mention the officials and the people?
Officials should not use their power to force money from the people.
In this world, people live in groups, so there are brokers and etiquette to communicate with each other.
If you don’t want to repair your interpersonal relationships, how can you still fly away and not live in this world?
The chief of the pavilion has always been a good official, so it is appropriate to give something during the Chinese New Year. The man said: If this is the case, why is it prohibited by law?
Zhuo Mao smiled and said: What the law sets is Dafa, and what is polite is human relationships.
Now if I teach you with etiquette, you will have no resentment. If I punish you with the law, you will be caught off guard!
Within a sect, small ones can be discussed, but big ones can be beheaded.
Go back and think about it.
So the people accepted his teachings, and the officials remembered his kindness.
At first, Zhuomao went to the county and ignored the government orders. The officials laughed at him, and those in neighboring cities despised him for his incompetence.
Henan County appointed a guardian for this purpose. Zhuomao did not mind this matter and still handled government affairs as before.
A few years later, enlightenment was widespread, and no relics were picked up along the way.
During the reign of Emperor Ping, a great locust plague broke out all over the country. More than 20 counties in Henan Province were affected by the locust plague, except that it did not enter the county boundaries of Mi County.
The postal supervisor reported it, but the prefect didn't believe it. He went to the county to investigate in person and was convinced only after seeing the true situation.
At this time, Wang Mang was in charge of the government and appointed six ministers of agriculture and agriculture to guide and assess farmers and mulberry trees. He moved Zhuomao to be the minister of the capital. The people of Mi County, old and young, cried to see each other off.
When Wang Mang was living in the country, he was exempted from returning to the county because of his illness. He often offered wine to his disciples and refused to serve as an official.
Gengshi was established, and Zhuomao was appointed as his attendant to offer wine. He followed him to Chang'an. Knowing that Gengshi was in political turmoil, he asked to resign and return home because of his old age.
At this time, when Guangwu came to the throne, he first went to visit Zhuomao, and Zhuomao went to Heyang to see him.
Guangwu issued an edict saying: Zhuomao, the former magistrate of Mi County, restrained and cultivated himself, was honest and steady in his duties, and could do things that others could not do.
At first, Zhuomao and his six comrades, Kong Xiu from the same county, Cai Xun from Chenliu, Liu Xuan from Anzhong, Gong Sheng from Chu, and Bao Xuan from Shangdang, did not serve in the reign of Wang Mang, but were famous at that time.
Kong Xiu, whose courtesy name was Ziquan, was the county magistrate of Xindu in the early days of Emperor Ai.
Later, when Wang Mang assumed power, Kong Xiu resigned from office and returned home.
When Wang Mang usurped the throne, he sent an envoy with Xuan Jinxun and silk to ask him to be the national advisor. Kong Xiu vomited blood and blamed his illness, and Du Men committed suicide.
When Guangwu came to the throne, he asked the descendants of Kong Xiu and Cai Xun to give him grain to show his power.
Liu Xuan, courtesy name Zigao, was a cousin of Anzhonghou Liu Chong. Knowing that Wang Mang would usurp the throne, he changed his name and hid in the mountains holding scriptures.
When Jianwu first came out of the mountain, Guangwu attacked Liu Xuan and granted him the title of Marquis of An.
Gong Ci, Gong Sheng's son, was promoted to be the prefect of Shanggu. The historian commented: At the beginning of the founding of the military, the heroes were quarreling, shouting and shouting, and those who defended themselves in the city looked at each other. This was the time when there were too many things to do.
Zhuomao, a small county magistrate with no other extraordinary talents and over seventy years old, was able to be appointed as the first to be appointed and receive great gifts and words. How is this different from King Wu of Zhou who appointed Bigan to watch Shang Rong and King Zhao of Yan to serve as Guo Wei's tutor in building a palace?
Therefore, many guests who harbored righteous indignation and hoped to return to the right path crossed the dangerous mountains and abandoned their clans in order to exclude the Jinmen embroidered households.
Being kind and lenient is closer to benevolence, and not repaying someone for committing a crime is closer to forgiveness. If you can do this, will anyone still be resentful?
Lu Gong's biography, Lu Gong's courtesy name was Zhongkang, and he was a native of Pingling, Fufeng.
His ancestors came from Lu Qinggong, who was destroyed by Chu and moved to Xiayi, so he took Lu as his clan surname.
Generations are worth two thousand stones. During the Aiping years, they migrated from Lu.
During the reign of Wang Mang, his grandfather Lu Kuang was an official in charge of the four seasons. He had great authority and was known as the "think tank".
His father, Lu, was the prefect of Wuling in the early days of Jianwu, and he died in the official position.
At that time, Lu Gong was only twelve years old and his younger brother Lu Pi was only seven years old. The two brothers were crying and jumping day and night. They did not accept the funeral gifts from the county, so they went home to mourn. The etiquette was even more considerate than that of adults. The villagers were deeply surprised.
At the age of fifteen, he, his mother and his younger brother Lu Pi all lived in Taixue, where they studied "Lu Shi", lectured and recited it behind closed doors, and ignored external affairs. Both brothers were praised by the Confucian scholars, and the bachelors rushed to join them.
Taiwei Zhao admired his ambition and sent his son to ask if there was a shortage of wine or food during every year and festival, but he refused.
Lu Gong felt sorry for Lu Pi because he was young and wanted him to achieve his fame first. He pretended that he was ill and would not serve as an official.
The county invited him several times with courtesy, but Lu Gong thanked him and refused to respond. His mother forced him to send him out. Lu Gong had no choice but to go west, because he stayed in Xinfeng as a professor.
In the early years of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Lu Pi was promoted to Fangzheng, and Lu Gong began to serve as a county official.
Taifu Zhao heard the news and called him out to serve.
Suzong gathered many Confucian scholars at Baihu Temple, and Lu Gongte summoned him with the Ming Sutra to participate in the discussion.
Zhao also recommended Lu Gong outspokenly and waited for the imperial edict to be sent to the public carriage to pay homage to Mou Ling.
Lu Gong specialized in moral transformation and did not regard punishment. The litigants Xu Bo and others were fighting for land, and successive orders could not be settled. Lu Gong commented on the merits of the case for them, but in the end they all retreated and blamed themselves, and stopped farming to give up the land to each other.
The director of the pavilion borrowed someone else's cow and refused to return it, so the owner of the cow sued Lu Gong.
He respectfully summoned the chief of the pavilion and ordered him to return the cow to its owner. He urged him repeatedly, but he still refused to return the cow.
Lu Gong sighed and said, "This is a teaching that doesn't work."
Prepare to resign and leave.
The ministers cried and tried to persuade each other to stay. The chief of the pavilion felt deeply regretful and returned the cow.
So the officials and the people were convinced.
In the seventh year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, borers were infested in the county and the crops were damaged. The boundaries of the counties were intertwined, but the borers could not enter the middle.
Henan Yin Yuan'an heard that the suspicion was not true, so he sent Renshu and his relatives to investigate.
Lu Gong followed him as he walked among the streets and sat under a mulberry tree. A pheasant flew by and stopped nearby. There happened to be a child next to him. The fat relative said to the child: "Why don't you catch the pheasant?"
Tong'er said: This pheasant is hatching chicks.
The fat relative stood up in alarm and said goodbye to Lu Gong: "I came here to inspect your political performance."
Nowadays, moths do not attack Zhongmou, which is one wonder; virtue is extended to birds and beasts, which is the second wonder; even children have benevolence, which is the third wonder.
If I stay here for a long time, I can only disturb the wise man.
Returning to the mansion, he made a truthful report to the governor Yuan An.
This year, particularly strong seedlings grew in the side room of Lu Gong's residence. Yuan An therefore wrote a letter explaining the situation, which surprised the emperor.
Just then, he ordered hundreds of officials to recommend virtuous and upright people. Lu Gong recommended Wang Fang, a famous scholar in Zhongmu. The emperor immediately summoned Wang Fang to the official carriage and treated the virtuous and upright people recommended by the minister with the same etiquette. Wang Fang became an official in the service.
During Lu Gong's three years in office, he excelled particularly well in the state examinations. It coincided with the death of his mother and his resignation, and officials and people all missed him.
Later, he became the imperial censor.
When Emperor He was first established, he was preparing to send the cavalry general Dou Xian and the western general Geng Bing to attack the Xiongnu. Lu Gong wrote a letter to admonish: Your Majesty works personally on the holy body, does not eat during the sun, and is worried about military service. The reason is to stabilize the northern border, eliminate troubles for the people, and plan for the future.
But I thought to myself that I had not seen the convenience.
The plan for the country and the lives of thousands of people depend on one move.
For several years, the autumn harvests have failed, people have not enough food, warehouses are empty, and the country has no reserves.
It happened that Emperor Zhang died, and people were filled with fear.
Your Majesty, who has practiced the virtues of a great saint and performed the most filial piety, should spend three years in mourning and listen to the funeral rites.
The people were sad, and they could not hear the sound of police for three hours, and they all felt anxious and worried, as if they were asking for something but not getting it.
Today, in the full month of spring, we launch military campaigns, disrupt the world, and stalemate with the barbarians. This is not a move to show favor to China and change the time of the Yuan Dynasty, from the inside to the outside.
All peoples are born from heaven.
God loves his children, just like parents love their sons.
If something is out of place and the weather is wrong, let alone people.
Therefore, those who love others will be rewarded.
In the past, Taiwang Gugong passed away because he cherished human life, so he was blessed by God.
Yi Di is the strange spirit in all directions.
Ping Siju is arrogant, unruly and rude, no different from birds and beasts.
If they live together in China, they will confuse the weather and insult good people. Therefore, the system of the Holy King is just a constant restraint on them.
There is nothing happening on the border today. We should practice benevolence, practice righteousness, and advocate inaction, so that our families can have enough people and have a safe and prosperous career.
If the human way is stable at the bottom, the yin and yang will be harmonious at the top, and the auspicious wind and rain will cover the distance, then Yi Di will pay tribute through many translations.
"Book of Changes" says: With good faith and accumulation, it is like rainwater filling a small pot, and the result will be other auspicious events. It means that if the sweet rain fills my earthenware fou, if I have integrity, it will be auspicious for someone to come and join me.
Those who conquer others with virtue will prosper, and those who conquer others with strength will perish.
Today, the Xiongnu were defeated by Xianbei and are hiding far west of the Shihou River, thousands of miles away from the frontier fortress. To take advantage of their wastage and weaken them to attack them is not moral.
The former servant Ji Tong went far beyond the fortress, but in the end he could not see a single Hu soldier and he was already trapped.
The disasters in Baishan are endless. The protector Chen Mu was trapped, and the soldiers died in large numbers, and they are still suffering from his poison to this day.
The feeling of loneliness and sorrow has not disappeared. The benevolent think of it and think it is holding their breath. Why do they want to continue its legacy and ignore the adversity?
Now the levy has begun, but the chief minister, Nong, has insufficient dispatch. The envoys are at the road, and the branches are supervising. The top and bottom are facing each other, and the people are in serious embarrassment.
There is little rain in Sanfu, Bingzhou, and Liangzhou, the wheat roots are withered, and the cows die every day. This is an effect that is not in accordance with the will of heaven.
The officials and the people all said that this could not be done. How could your Majesty only think of one person, abandon the lives of thousands of people, and not be considerate of the voices of the people?
Observing the heart of heaven from above and the will of people from below are enough to know the gains and losses of things.
I am afraid that if this continues, China will no longer be China, and the Huns will not become the Huns!
Your Majesty, please retain your holy grace, stop dismissing your soldiers, and obey the will of Heaven.
The book was sent to the emperor, but the emperor refused to obey.
Whenever political affairs were discussed, as long as they were beneficial to others, Lu Gong would always speak frankly and hide nothing.
Later, he became a doctor of "Lu Shi". From then on, the family's legal scholars became more and more prosperous.
He was moved to serve as a servant, and he held banquets several times to ask about his gains and losses. His rewards, favors, and favors were different from ordinary people.
Later, he was moved to the position of Liu Chong, the king of Qiancheng.
At this time, there were many thieves in Dongzhou, and they formed groups to attack and plunder, causing trouble to all the counties.
After Lu Gong arrived, he bought rewards with heavy sums of money and spread the favor widely. His commander-in-chief Zhang Han and others led his faction to surrender. Lu Gong used him as Han supplicant Bo Changwei.
In the ninth year of Yongyuan, he was recruited and worshiped as Yilang.
In August, he drank pure strong wine and met at Zhangtai. He ordered Xiaohuangmen to lead Lu Gong forward.
That night he worshiped as a servant and ordered an envoy to accompany him to express his condolences and ask for his kindness.
In winter, Luxun was moved to Guangzhou, and the election was pure and fair. No one from the capital could distort his integrity.
In the thirteenth year of Yongyuan, he replaced Lu Gai as Situ.
In the fifteenth year, the emperor visited Nanyang and appointed his son Lu Fu as the doctor. He was given a deputy horse to drive.
At this time, his younger brother Lu Pi also became a servant.
Brothers, father and son sit side by side in the court.
Later, he was dismissed from office due to his clan brother's affairs.
Emperor Shang ascended the throne and appointed Lu Gong as the Changle Guard.
In the first year of Yongchu's reign, Liang Quan was replaced as Situ.
At first, in the last years of Emperor He's reign, he ordered that the sentences be reduced during the wheat and autumn seasons. However, the prefectures and counties liked to govern with harshness, so they suspended sentences in the midsummer season.
Lu Gong went to the imperial court and remonstrated: When I saw the edict and respected Heaven, I thought of all the people and advocated harmony. The crime does not necessarily lead to death, so I will not investigate and confirm it for the time being.
Advance in kindness, retreat from greed and weakness, and act in accordance with the times.
This will help benevolent and virtuous, comply with Haotian, bring harmony, and benefit the people.
The old system stipulated that light punishments would be implemented at the beginning of autumn. Since the fifteenth year of Yongyuan, Meng Xia has been used instead. However, the governor and the governor did not think deeply about the principle of caring for the people and redressing the troubles, and promoted the virtuous and the corrupt. Instead, they recruited farmers in midsummer, arrested and tested the evidence. The cases were implicated in each other, and the case was delayed.
Sili Xiaoweidian leads the capital, taking all parties as the criterion. Recently, in the spring, he has branched out into various ministries, using pretexts and words to convey the poor, without mercy on the actual situation below, disturbing the counties and counties, scrutinizing those who have to be dealt with urgently, and arresting one person.
According to the "Nuhou Gua" in the fifth month of the "Book of Changes", the "Nvhou Gua" says: There is wind in the world, and the monarch gives orders to regulate the four directions.
It is said that the monarch uses the summer solstice to issue orders to stop those traveling in all directions to help the occurrence of slight clouds.
If the traveler wants to stop, how much more to arrest, test, plunder, and seize the time?
In recent years, floods and droughts have damaged agriculture, and people have been dispersed due to hunger.
This summer has just begun, the beginning of the harvest, the time when all things are pregnant and developing.
Since March, there has been a lack of warmth and coldness, and living things should change without being harmonious.
"Moon Order": Meng Xia cut off light punishment and released minor offenders.
When the autumn order comes, bitter rains will come frequently and the grain will not be ripe.
He also said: In mid-summer, the prisoners should be lenient and their food should be increased.
When the autumn order is carried out, vegetation falls and people are injured by diseases.
Therefore, it is necessary to give a lighter sentence because the crime is minor and he has repented. He should not be kept in prison for a long time, so the decision is made promptly.
I think that the current system of Mengxia can be implemented according to this order. Its prison sentences are all judged by the beginning of autumn. This will follow the seasons and cultivate all things. Then the heaven and the earth will be harmonious and the punishment will be clear.
At first, during Suzong's reign, the prison was broken before the winter solstice, and later commentators refuted each other.
Empress Dowager Deng ordered the ministers to hold a meeting to discuss. Lu Gong discussed and reported: The qi of yin and yang support each other and move, and each has its own season.
If it is not in season, then things will be damaged accordingly.
Although the kings have different qualities and literary talents, this principle has not changed. The administration of the four seasons is implemented in the same way.
The "Moon Order" was formulated by the Zhou Dynasty, and it was based on the time of the Xia Dynasty. The only changes were the Zhengshuo, clothing colors, and the livestock, emblems, and instruments used in sacrifices.
Therefore: Yin Yin copied Xia Li, Zhou Yin copied Yin Li, and the gains and losses of additions and deletions can be known.
The Book of Changes says: It symbolizes the lurking dragon, so it is better not to use it.
It means that the Yang Qi is hidden in November and December, making it inconvenient to use.
Although the gentle wind blows and warms all things and maintains the roots, there is still a lot of yin above, the ground is frozen and the water is frozen, and the yang energy is blocked and closed for the winter.
Therefore, it is said: If you walk on the frosty ground, you will know that the season of solid ice is coming, and the Yin Qi will begin to condense. If it goes down, it will naturally condense into solid ice.
It means that it starts to be slightly overcast in May and solid ice forms in November.
What the king does is based on the seasons.
Emperor Xiaozhang thought deeply about the ways of the ancients, and formulated laws and regulations to help his son Chou Yin's weak Yang Qi, hoping to be in harmony with the seasons in order to follow the heart of heaven and obey the fate of things.
However, judging from the reality since the reform, the years are not rich, the price of grain is very high, and people are uneasy.
If the county officials do not agree with the state, they will execute prisoners who have committed capital crimes in November. They will kill them without asking the merits. Even if the circumstances of some cases are suspicious, they will not be reviewed and corrected.
If one person complains about injustice, then the king's rule is wrong. What if many people are like this?
"Yi" November: A gentleman should review and suspend the death penalty for suspects.
Doubtful criminals can be ordered to follow this method in detail, and the death penalty subjects will not be terminated until the end of the winter month.
When the beginning of spring is in mid-December, you don’t need to file a petition for a report and still do it as before.
It was later implemented.
Lu Gong held the position of public minister, selected and appointed senior officials, and appointed dozens of ministers and county guards.
However, some elders with the same surname may be resentful because they were not recommended for promotion.
After Lu Gong heard this, he said: "The lack of learning is my worry."
Don’t all the students have their own villages to recommend them to?
So the complainer has nothing to say. Lu Gong had a humble nature and based his opinions on the classics. Although he benefited a lot, he never showed himself, so he was not known for his uprightness. After three years, he stopped writing due to old illness and illness. Six years later, at the age of eighty-one, he died at home.
◆In the biography of Wei Ba, Wei Ba's courtesy name is Qiao Qing, a native of Jiyinjuyang.
There is etiquette from generation to generation.
Wei Ba had been bereaved since childhood, and his brothers lived together. The state admired the harmony between their brothers.
In the early years of the founding of the People's Republic of China, he was promoted to Xiaolian and moved eight times. By the time of Emperor He, he was the prefect of Julu.
Live by simplicity and forgiveness.
When a governor makes a mistake, Wei Ba first criticizes his mistakes, and only removes those who do not correct them.
Officials sometimes denounced each other's complaints, but Wei Ba always praised the merits of the officials and never mentioned their shortcomings. As a result, those who denounced each other felt ashamed, and the trend of bad words and false accusations subsided.
In the 16th year of Yongyuan, he was worshiped as an official in charge of building palaces.
In the second year, Emperor He died, and Wei Ba took charge of the construction of Shunling.
It was a severe winter and the envoys sent by the palace were very strict in urging and punished the county officials several times to encourage Wei Ba.
Wei Ba only comforted them and did not blame the people below him. He also comforted them and said: It is my master craftsman's fault that you are being insulted now.
The officials were grateful and tried their best to speed up the progress of the project.
In the first year of Yanping, Dai Yinqin was appointed Taichang.
In the second year, he resigned due to illness and became Doctor Guanglu.
In the fifth year of Yongchu, he worshiped Changle Weiwei, begged for his illness, and became Guanglu doctor again. He died in the official position.
◆Biography of Liu Kuan Liu Kuan, courtesy name Wenrao, was a native of Hongnong and Huayin.
His father, Liu Qi, was a Situ during the reign of Emperor Shun.
Liu Kuan once went out and someone lost his cow. He found a cow in Liu Kuan's car and said it was his.
Liu Kuan made no excuse and got out of the car and walked home.
Soon, the man who recognized the cow found his lost cow and returned it to Liu Kuan. He kowtowed and apologized, saying: "I am ashamed of my elders, and I am willing to accept your punishment for me."
Liu Kuan said: Things are similar, and mistakes are allowed. Please send it back. How can I thank you?
The people in the state admired his magnanimous and non-confrontational spirit.
During the reign of Emperor Huan, General Liang Ji conquered him and was promoted to Situ Changshi five times.
At that time, there was an earthquake in the capital, so he was specially interviewed and asked.
He moved again and left the capital to become the prime minister of Liu Zhen, King of the East China Sea.
In the eighth year of Yanxi's reign, he was worshiped as Shangshu Ling and moved to Nanyang to be the prefect.
In charge of the three counties, he was gentle, benevolent and forgiving. Although he was in a hurry and urgent, he was not quick to express his anger.
It is often thought that punishments are used to govern the people. Although the people do not commit punishments, they will inevitably behave shamelessly.
When officials and common people have offenses, they only use a few whips with grass whips to show insult, without causing any pain to the flesh.
Wherever there is merit, it is attributed to the following.
When disaster occurs, take responsibility yourself.
Every time he stopped at the Tingchuan Inn in the county, he would be greeted by academic officials offering wine and virgins holding scriptures in their hands to talk to each other.
When you see your elders, you comfort them with words from the farm; when you see young people, you encourage them with the words of filial piety and brotherhood.
People are motivated to practice virtue when they feel it, and education is becoming more and more popular.
At the beginning of Emperor Ling's reign, he was worshiped as Taizhong doctor and served as lecturer in Huaguang Palace.
When he moved to serve as a servant, he was given a set of clothes.
He was transferred to Tunqi Xiaowei, moved to Zongzheng, and transferred to Guangluxun.
In the fifth year of Xiping's reign, Xu Xun was appointed Taiwei.
Emperor Ling loved learning arts very much. Whenever he introduced Liu Kuan, he often asked him to give lectures on Buddhist scriptures.
Liu Kuan once fell asleep after being drunk on his seat.
The emperor asked: "Is the Taiwei drunk?"
Liu Kuan raised his head and replied: "I dare not get drunk, but the task is heavy and the responsibility is great, and I am so worried that I am drunk."
The emperor valued his words.
Liu Kuan simply liked to drink, but did not like to wash his hands and bathe, so the capital became a proverb.
I once sat with a guest and sent an old servant to the market to buy wine. After a long time, the old servant came back drunk.
The guest was unbearable and cursed: "Beast."
Liu Kuan soon sent someone to visit the old servant, suspecting that he would commit suicide.
He said to his left and right: "This man, call him a beast. Is there any greater insult than this?"
So I'm afraid that he will commit suicide.
The madam wanted to try to make Liu Kuan angry once. When the court meeting was held, after dressing up, the special envoy's maid pretended to accidentally spill meat soup on Liu Kuan, and the court clothes were also stained.
The maid hurriedly retreated, but Liu Kuan showed no anger and his expression remained unchanged. He slowly said to the maid: "Did the soup hurt your hand?"
Such was the magnanimity of his temperament.
People all over the country call him the elder.
Later he was dismissed due to a solar eclipse.
He paid homage to the Weiwei again.
In the second year of Guanghe's reign, Duan Yu was appointed Taiwei again.
After three years of service, the employee will be exempted on a day-to-day basis.
He also paid homage to the Shaofu of Yongle and moved to Guangluxun, in order to predict the Yellow Turbans' conspiracy. Based on this incident, he made a report and sealed 600 households of the local marquis.
He died in the second year of Zhongping at the age of sixty-six.
His son Liu Song succeeded to the throne, and his official position was Zongzheng.
