Emperor Xiaocheng was the prince of Emperor Yuan.
His mother was Empress Wang. When Emperor Yuan was the crown prince, he was born into the emperor in the colorful painting hall of the palace and became his direct grandson.
Emperor Xuan liked him very much and named him Taisun. He often placed him under his knees.
When he was three years old, his grandfather Emperor Xuan died. Emperor Yuan succeeded to the throne and Emperor Cheng made him the prince.
As an adult, he likes to read scriptures, be broad-minded and cautious.
He used to live in Guigong, but Emperor Yuan sometimes summoned him urgently. When the prince left the Dragon Tower Gate, he did not dare to cross the emperor's galloping road. He went west to Zhicheng Gate, crossed in front of the city gate, and then turned back to Zuoshimen.
Emperor Yuan saw that he was late and asked why. Emperor Cheng told him that he did not dare to cross the Emperor's Chi Road and had to take a detour. Emperor Yuan was very happy and ordered that the Prince could cross the Chi Road.
Later, Emperor Yuan thought he was incompetent because he was fond of drinking and enjoying himself. Emperor Yuan decided that Prince Tao Gong was versatile and his mother, Fu Zhaoyi, was favored. Emperor Yuan wanted to make Prince Gong the crown prince.
Lai Shizhong Shi Xian protected the prince's family and provided strong assistance. Emperor Xuan of the Yuan Dynasty was spared from deposing because Emperor Xuan was particularly fond of the prince.
In May of the first year of Jingning, Emperor Yuan died.
On June 22, the prince ascended the throne and paid homage to Gaozu Temple.
The empress dowager is respected as the empress dowager, and the empress is the empress dowager.
Wang Feng, the Marquis of Yangping, the imperial uncle's imperial guard, was appointed as the Grand Sima and the Grand General, and was in charge of the secretarial affairs.
On July 28, relevant personnel stated: It is indecent to be buried with chariots, cattle, horses, and animals and should not be buried with them.
Emperor Cheng agreed.
In July, there is a general amnesty.
On the first day of the first lunar month of the first year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, the emperor's great ancestor mourned a fire in the temple.
He made Kuling Liang, the brother of the deceased King of Hejian, the king of Shangjun.
A comet appears in the camp star area.
He was dismissed from Shanglin and sentenced to prison.
In February, when the right general Shi Yao Yin and others were on their way back from an envoy to the Huns, more than a hundred miles away from the frontier fortress, they suddenly encountered a storm and fire, which burned Yao Yin and seven others to death.
The princes, prime ministers, generals, princes, queen mothers, princesses, royal lords, and officials were rewarded with two thousand stones of gold. The officials of the clan were given less than one thousand stones to two hundred stones. The men of the clan who were famous in the genealogy, the three elders, the filial piety, the fields, the widows and the widows were all rewarded with money and silk, each with different levels. Fifty households of officials and people were rewarded with some cattle and wine.
The edict was issued: Fire fell in the ancestral temple, a comet appeared in the east, and God warned me when I ascended the throne. My fault was serious!
"Shangshu" says: In ancient times, when a wise king encountered disaster, he corrected his virtues and behaved according to the celestial phenomena.
I hope that all the ministers will work tirelessly and lead the staff to supplement my shortcomings.
Advocate tolerance, promote harmony, treat others favorably, and don't be harsh on others.
Now a general amnesty is being granted to the whole world, so that the criminals can rehabilitate themselves.
He conferred the title of Marquis of Ancheng to his uncles, Guanglu Dafu, and Guannei Marquis Wang Chong.
His uncles Wang Tan, Wang Shang, Wang Li, Wang Gen and Wang Fengshi were given the title of Marquis of Guannei.
In the summer of April, with the yellow mist all around, I asked the ministers and officials extensively, hoping that nothing could be hidden.
In June, tens of thousands of bluebottle flies gathered at the courtiers' seats in Weiyang's palace.
In autumn, I went to the Shanglin Palace Hall to visit twenty-five places.
In August, two moons appear one above the other and appear in the east in the morning.
On September 28th, a shooting star shone brightly on the ground. It was four to five feet long, twisted and snake-shaped, and penetrated the Purple Palace star area.
In December, sacrifice places were built in the northern and southern suburbs of Chang'an, and then went to Ganquan and Fenyin to offer sacrifices to the temple.
On this day, a strong wind started and uprooted more than ten trees in Ganquan Temple.
Four out of ten counties were affected by wind disasters. Exemption from land rent in disaster areas.
In the first month of the spring of the second year of Jianshi, he went to five places in Yongdi to offer sacrifices to heaven and earth.
On the 23rd, Emperor Cheng began to conduct suburban sacrifices in the southern suburbs of Chang'an. He issued an edict: The former moved to the southern suburbs of Taiyuan, and the rear soil was moved to the southern and northern suburbs. I am pious and respectful, and the suburbs offer sacrifices to heaven. The emperor will retaliate and the divine light will appear.
The Sanfu area has year-round service, and pardons were given to criminals convicted of sideburns among officials in Chang'an County, Changling County and Zhongdu who worshiped in the suburbs.
To reduce the tax money in the world, the tax is reduced by forty.
In the first month of leap year, the Yanling Pavilion in Weicheng was designated as the first mausoleum.
In February, the imperial edict was issued to each of the three auxiliary counties recommending a virtuous and upright person.
In March, water from the Beigong well burst out of the ground.
On March 14, Emperor Cheng began to offer sacrifices to Hou Tu in the northern suburbs of Chang'an. On March 19, Queen Xu was established.
Let's go to the Sixth Stable and the Skill Officer.
In summer, a severe drought occurred.
Wang Yu of Dongping was guilty and had his enfeoffment of Fan and Kangfu counties reduced.
In autumn, Prince Bowang Garden was revoked and given to the clan who came to Beijing to invite him.
Reduce the number of horses the emperor rides on.
In the spring and March of the third year, all prisoners in the world were pardoned.
He was awarded the second level of filial piety and land title, and the relief loan given to those who fled were exempted.
In autumn, there is a flood in the pass.
In the seventh month, Chen Chigong, a young girl from Mi Shang, heard that the flood was coming. She walked into the Hengcheng Gate, broke into the side door of the palace, and went to the official residence of Weiyang Palace.
The officials and the people all rushed to the city.
In September, an edict was issued saying: The former county suffered from floods and thousands of people drowned.
The capital made false rumors without reason that the flood was coming, and the officials and people were frightened and rushed to the city.
This may be the result of harsh and cruel officials resenting the people. The people suffered injustice and lost a lot, which led to these lies.
Now he is sending admonitions to the great officials Lin and others to travel around the world.
On the first day of December in winter, there is a partial solar eclipse.
That night, there was an earthquake in Weiyang Palace.
The edict said: "I often hear that the people in the world are unable to govern themselves, so I set up a king to govern them."
If the king is virtuous, then the plants, trees and insects will find their proper place; if the king is not virtuous, then the heaven and the earth will be blamed, and disasters will appear repeatedly to warn them that they are not in accordance with the righteousness of governance.
I know too little about the way of kings, and my actions and measures are often inappropriate. So on December 1, a solar eclipse and an earthquake occurred at the same time, and I was deeply frightened.
Your Majesty should think carefully about my faults and point them out to me clearly. "Shang Shu" said: Don't obey Wei Wei in person, but there are slanderous words behind his back.
The prime minister, censors, generals, princes, Zhongerqianshi and the counties in the Central Plains region recommend virtuous, upright and outspoken people who can give the most advice to the government office and submit letters. I will personally read their books.
Zhao Xunshan collapsed.
In the spring of the fourth year, the eunuchs of Zhongshu were dismissed and five Shangshu were appointed.
In April, it snows.
In the fifth month, Chen Lin, the prime minister who was paying homage to the emperor, killed Yuan Feng, the captain of Sili School, in the palace.
In autumn, peaches and plums bear fruit.
The flood caused the Yellow River to burst at Jindi in Dongjun.
In the tenth month of winter, Yin Zhong, the imperial censor, committed suicide due to dereliction of duty in Hejue.
In the spring and March of the first year of Heping, an edict was issued saying: The Yellow River broke through Dongjun and flooded the two prefectures of Yan and Henan. Wang Yanshi, the school captain, blocked the mouth and re-embanked the Yellow River to return to its old course. The name was changed to Heping.
There are different levels of rewards for officials and people in the world.
On April 30th in summer, the sun went from a partial to a total eclipse.
The edict was issued: I was able to inherit the ancestral temple, but I trembled and failed to perform my duties satisfactorily.
"The Biography" says: If the male education is deficient and the masculinity is weak, there will be a solar eclipse.
The sky shows a vision, and I am guilty.
The minister, the minister, tried his best to correct my mistakes.
All the officials fulfilled their duties, valued the wise, rejected evil, and pointed out my faults without hiding anything.
Amnesty to the world.
In June, the vassal state and Dahonglu institutions were cancelled.
In autumn and September, the emperor's dormitory temple and cemetery were restored.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, Tieguan of Pei County smelted Tie Fei, and his story was recorded in the "Five Elements Chronicles".
In the sixth month of summer, my uncles Wang Tan, Wang Shang, Wang Li, Wang Gen and Wang Fengshi were all made marquises.
On February 27th in the spring of the third year, there was an earthquake and landslide in Jianwei, blocking the river and causing the water to flow backwards.
On August 30th in autumn, a partial solar eclipse occurred.
Liu Xiang, the official of Guanglu, managed the imperial book collection and sent an audience to Chen Nong to ask for his legacy to the world.
In the first month of spring of the fourth year, the Xiongnu Chanyu came to Beijing to pay homage.
Pardon the prisoners in the world, reward filial piety with the second level of land title, and waive the loans owed for those who evade rent and tax.
In February, Shanyu returned to China after paying court.
On the first day of March, there is a partial solar eclipse.
He sent Dr. Guanglu, Dr. Jia and other eleven people to patrol the counties on both sides of the Yellow River to learn about those who were unable to survive due to floods and provide relief according to the situation.
Those who were drowned or crushed to death by water and were unable to bury themselves were ordered to be buried in thin coffins provided by the county.
Those who have been buried will be paid a discount of two thousand per person.
For those who have fled and are living in other places, food should be distributed from where they are. We must register and care for them carefully to prevent them from losing their regular business.
Recommend people who are honest, have high moral standards and can speak out.
On March 20, the bank of Changling near the Jingshui River collapsed, blocking the Jingshui River.
On the 29th day of the sixth lunar month in the summer, King Liu Xiao of Chu passed away.
Shan Yanghuo was born in the stone, and the name was changed to Yangshuo.
On the 30th day of the second spring of the first year of Yangshuo, there was a partial solar eclipse. In March, prisoners all over the world are pardoned.
In winter, Jingzhao Yin Wangzhang was found guilty and imprisoned to death.
The spring of the second year was cold.
The edict said: In ancient times, Emperor Yao established Xi and He as officials, and ordered them to take charge of the four seasons of heaven and earth, so that production and life can proceed in the order of seasons and seasons.
Therefore, "Shangshu" says: The people can adapt to changes and maintain peace and harmony. Explain that the yin and yang seasons are very important.
Today, some ministers and officials do not believe in yin and yang and think it is a trivial matter. Some of the memorials are inconsistent with the monthly order.
No one in power understands the yin and yang seasons, and the world is confused about them. Isn't it absurd to expect the harmony of yin and yang?
The ministers and officials are now ordered to pay attention to comply with the four seasons and monthly orders.
In March, there is a general amnesty.
In the fifth month of summer, the salary of officials was reduced from 800 shi to 600 shi, and from 500 shi to 400 shi.
In autumn, there is a flood in Guandong. If the people fleeing the famine want to enter Hangu, Tianji, Hukou, or Wuruan Pass, please do not stop them.
Doctors and doctors were sent to inspect various places.
On August 22, Liu Kang, King of Dingtao, passed away.
In September, some officials who were ordered to go on missions were not qualified for their duties.
The imperial edict stated: The reason why imperial courts throughout the ages have established Taixue is to spread the achievements of the ancestors and promote their teachings throughout the world.
Officials in the Confucian Academy of Sciences are required to be knowledgeable, be able to understand the past and present, review the past and learn new things, and use theories to answer the country's current major problems, so they are called doctors.
Otherwise, scholars will be despised by people if they do not have any incisive insights in knowledge, which will fail to achieve the purpose of respecting knowledge and morality. The Analects of Confucius says: If a worker wants to do his job well, he must first sharpen his tools.
The prime minister, censor, and Zhong Erqianshi and Erqianshi recommended candidates who could serve as doctoral candidates, making their role and status remarkable.
This year, the imperial censor Zhang Zhong passed away.
In the spring of the third year on March 7th, there were eight meteorites from Dongjun.
In the sixth month of the summer, one hundred and eighty people, including Yingchuan Iron Officer Shen Tusheng, killed the chief officials, stole weapons from the arsenal, claimed themselves to be generals, and rampaged across nine counties.
They sent Prime Minister Chang Shi and Yu Shi Zhongcheng to hunt him down, surrounded and suppressed them with troops, and beheaded them all to prove their guilt.
On the 30th day of the eighth month of autumn, General Wang Feng, the great Sima general, passed away.
In the first month of spring of the fourth year, an edict was issued saying: "Shang Shu·Hong Fan" states that among the eight political affairs, food is the first. Because it is the basis for family self-sufficiency and non-violation of prohibitions.
The late emperor encouraged farming, collected taxes lightly, and rewarded those who worked hard in the fields, making them equal to filial piety.
Recently, farmers have become more and more lazy. Few are concerned about farming and more are engaged in business. How can this be corrected?
During spring plowing, two thousand stones were ordered to encourage farmers to go deep into the farmland and encourage farmers to work hard in agricultural production.
Didn't "Shang Shu" say that? Only by working hard can you reap the harvest in autumn.
Everyone should work hard!
In February, there is a general amnesty.
On September 16th in autumn, Liu Yu, King of Dongping, passed away.
On the seventh day of the twelfth lunar month, Yu Yong, the imperial censor, passed away.
In the spring and February of the first year of Hongjia's reign, an edict was issued saying: "I have inherited the grace of heaven and earth to protect the ancestral temple. However, I am not clear enough to carefully examine the people's conditions, and my virtue is not enough to appease the four directions." The punishment was inappropriate and many people lost their regular jobs due to injustice. There was a constant stream of appeals to the court.
Therefore, the yin and yang are wrong, the cold and heat are out of order, the sun and the moon have no light, and the people suffer disasters, I am deeply disturbed.
Didn't "Shang Shu" say that? When I was presiding over the affairs of the country, there was no veteran minister or sage to assist me. This was my own fault.
It is now the spring plowing season, and we have sent special officials to admonish the officials and others to investigate the unjust imprisonment of Sanfu, Sanhe, and Hongnong.
The ministers, ministers and governors should instruct the governors and prime ministers to live up to the great trust I have placed in them.
Now I will reward you with the first level of civil nobility in the world, a certain amount of cattle and wine for a woman from a hundred households, and a certain amount of silk for a widower and a lonely old man. Those who have escaped from the loan and have not paid it will be exempted.
On February 28, Emperor Cheng came to Chuling and pardoned the criminals who served in Chuling.
The opera township of Xinfeng County was designated as Changling County to commemorate Chuling, and every 100 households were rewarded with a certain amount of cattle and wine.
Emperor Cheng began to wear civilian clothes and ride in and out of the city alone with a small number of followers.
In winter, the yellow dragon appears in Zhending.
In the spring of the second year, I arrived in Yunyang.
In March, when the doctor was having a drinking ceremony, pheasants gathered in the palace courtyard, ascended the stairs and screamed loudly, then gathered in various government offices, and then gathered in Chengming Hall.
The edict said: In ancient times, when selecting talents, they first listened to their opinions and then put them on trial to test their abilities. Therefore, officials were very efficient, talents were not buried, education was popular, weather was smooth, grain harvests were good, people lived and worked in peace and contentment, and the masses were peaceful and peaceful.
I have inherited the great cause for more than ten years, and I have been hit by floods, droughts and plagues many times, and the people are often trapped in hunger and cold. How difficult it would be to expect the people to practice courtesy and respect honor and disgrace!
My inability to lead has led to the decline of the emperor's way. I have thought again and again: Is this the road to recruiting talents and selecting officials that is blocked? Or is the recommended person not worthy of his name?
I hope to recommend people who are honest, virtuous and can speak out. I hope to hear their profound insights and good strategies to help me with my shortcomings.
In the summer, 5,000 households with wealth of more than 5 million yuan were moved to Changling.
The prime minister, censors, generals, princes, and princesses were rewarded with two thousand stones and a cemetery and house in Changling.
In June, Sun Liu Yunke, the Xianwang of Zhongshan, was appointed King of Guangde.
In the summer and April of the third year, the world will be pardoned.
The officials and the people can buy nobles, and the price of each level is one thousand yuan.
A major drought occurs.
On August 15th in autumn, a fire broke out at the gate of Emperor Xiaojing's temple.
On November 17th in winter, Queen Xu was deposed.
Zheng Gong, a man from Guanghan, and more than 60 people attacked the government office, released the prisoners, stole weapons from the arsenal, and called himself a tiger.
In the spring and first month of the fourth year, an edict was issued saying: The relevant agencies have been instructed many times to be lenient and prohibit harsh punishments, but they have not changed yet.
If one person commits a crime, the entire clan will be imprisoned. Farmers will lose their regular business, and there will be many people who are resentful. This will damage the harmony of heaven and earth. Floods and droughts will cause disasters, and there will be many people scattered in Guandong. Qingzhou, Youzhou, and Jizhou are even more serious. I am very sad.
But I haven’t heard anyone in office expressing sadness about this. Who can share my worries?
Envoys have been sent to various places to check. If the disaster is more than 40% and the assets of the people are less than 30,000 yuan, they do not need to rent taxes.
Those who evade taxes and have not paid them will be exempted.
If refugees want to enter the customs, they will be allowed to enter after registering.
The counties and counties where the refugees go must provide care and guidance, and ensure that no one dies from cold or hunger.
Hope you understand my thoughts.
In autumn, floods occurred in Bohai and Qinghe, and relief loans were provided to the affected areas.
In the winter, Guanghan Zheng Gong and other party members gradually developed and attacked four counties, with tens of thousands of people.
Zhao Hu, the captain of Hedong Province, was appointed as the prefect of Guanghan, and a total of 30,000 soldiers from Guanghan County and Shu County were recruited to carry out encirclement and suppression.
He also called on Zheng Gong's troops to kill each other internally, so that their merits could be offset by their crimes.
It was settled in ten and a half months. Zhao Hu was promoted to the official of Jin Wu and given eight hundred catties of gold.
On the 22nd day of the first spring of the first year of Yongshi, a fire broke out in the Ling room of the eunuch.
On the 27th, a fire also broke out at the main entrance of Lihouyuan.
In April of summer, Jieyu and Zhao's father, Zhao Lin, were granted the title of Marquis of Chengyang.
In May, he made his uncle Wang Man's son Shizhongqi Duwei and Guanglu doctor Wang Mang the new capital lords.
On June 7, Queen Zhao was established.
Amnesty to the world.
In the seventh month of Autumn, an edict was issued saying: I am not determined enough to be virtuous, and cannot fully brainstorm ideas with my ministers. I overly listen to the great craftsman Jie Wannian's words that Changling can be built in three years.
After five years of construction, the Zhongling Tomb and Sima Palace Gate have not yet started, and the national treasury has spent a lot of money.
The people were exhausted, and the soil brought from other places to build the mausoleum was loose and messy, making it difficult to build Changling mausoleum.
I feel sad when I think of the project that wastes so much money and people.
The ancients said that if you don't correct your mistakes, small mistakes will become big mistakes.
It is now decided to stop the construction of Changling, and the five thousand households that were originally scheduled to move to Changling will no longer move, so that the world will not have the wavering heart to leave their hometown.
Prince Liu Li of Chengyang was made king.
On August 19, the Empress Dowager Wang passed away.
On the third day of the first lunar month of the second year of spring, Wang Yin, the general of the Great Sima Chariot, passed away.
On February 28th, stars fell like rain.
On the 30th, there was a partial eclipse of the sun.
The edict was issued saying: Not long ago, the dragon appeared in Donglai, and there was a partial eclipse of the sun. The sky showed changes to show my fault, and I was deeply frightened.
The ministers should tell their officials to seriously consider the warnings shown by heaven. Opinions on how to reduce taxes and levies for the convenience of the people can be reported one by one.
Money and food loaned to the poor will be exempted.
He also said: The harvest in Guandong has been poor for several years, and some officials and people gave food to the poor out of righteousness, or donated grain to help the county magistrates provide relief, and the officials should pay back the money according to the price. For those with a number of more than one million, they will be given a title of right rank. If they have already paid 300 shi for an official, they will be promoted to the second level.
If the number is more than 300,000, they will be given the rank of five officials, the officials who were already officials will be promoted to the second level, and the ordinary people will be supplemented by the rank of Langguan.
Those with a number of more than 100,000 will be exempted from rent for three years.
Those with more than 10,000 yuan will be exempted from rent for one year.
In the eleventh month of winter, I came to Yongdi and offered sacrifices to the five emperors.
In December, an edict was issued saying: General Xie Wannian, who had been a master craftsman for ten thousand years, knew that the terrain of Changling was low and could not be used as the emperor's mausoleum, but he petitioned to build a mausoleum here and build a city to support the mausoleum. He acted cunningly and deceitfully, transporting earth from other places to raise the foundation, wasting money and manpower, rushing to get started, and eager for success, so that the soldiers who participated in the construction were tortured and caused a large number of deaths.
The people were extremely tired and the treasury was depleted. Wang Hong, the constant servant, was the chief minister of Nongzhongcheng before. He reported many times that Changling could not be built.
Lieutenant Chun Yuchang suggested several times that the construction should be stopped as soon as possible and the relocated households should be returned to their original places.
Because of Chunyu Chang's suggestion, I sent Wang Hong's memorial to the ministers for discussion. After discussion, the ministers agreed with Chunyuchang.
Chunyu took the initiative to establish the correct strategy, and Wang Hong took charge of money, grain and employment to reduce losses and waste, so that the people could live in peace and prosperity.
I have previously given Wang Hongjue the title of Marquis of Guannei and a hundred catties of gold.
Chunyu is now granted the title of Marquis of Guannei by Changjue, with a settlement of 1,000 households and Wang Hong of 500 households.
Jie has been flattering and disloyal for thousands of years, harming the people, and the complaints continue to this day. Although his crime was pardoned, he should not live in the capital. It was decided to move Xie Wannian to Dunhuang County.
This year, Wang Jun, the imperial censor, passed away.
On the 30th day of the first lunar month in the third year of spring, a partial solar eclipse occurred.
The edict was issued saying: Natural disasters have occurred many times, and I am deeply frightened.
Worrying that the people would lose their usual jobs, he specially sent officials such as Jia and other officials to travel around the world, asking the elderly and virtuous people to understand the sufferings of the people.
Together with the governor of the same department, we can recommend one person who is honest, honest and virtuous.
On the fifth day of the tenth lunar month in winter, the Empress Dowager ordered relevant institutions to restore Ganquan Taiji, Fenyin Houtu, Yongwuji, and Chencang Chenbao Temples.
The incident is recorded in "Jiao Si Zhi".
In November, Fan Bing, a man from Weishi County, and 13 other people rebelled. They killed the prefect Chenliu, plundered the officials and people, and called himself a general.
The criminal Li Tan and other five people fought hard to kill Fan Bing and others, and they were all granted the title of marquis.
In December, Su Ling, a disciple of the Shanyang iron officer, and other 228 people attacked and killed the chief officials, stole weapons from the arsenal, called himself a general, attacked and plundered 19 prefectures, and killed the prefect of Dongjun and the captain of Runan.
The imperial court sent Prime Minister Chang Shi and Yu Shi Zhongcheng to hold Fu Jie to supervise the pursuit. Runan Prefect Yan Jinjin arrested and executed Su Ling and others.
Yan Yanjin was promoted to the rank of Chief Agriculture Officer, and he was given five hundred catties of gold.
In the first month of spring of the fourth year, I came to Ganquan and offered sacrifices to the Thai people in the suburbs. The divine light descended and appeared in the Purple Palace, granting amnesty to the world, and rewarding Yunyang officials and people with titles, a certain amount of cattle and wine for every 100 households of women, and a certain amount of silk for widows and widowers.
In the third month, he came to the east of Hedong, offered sacrifices to Hou Tu, and rewarded the officials and people in the same way as in Yunyang. No land was rented in the place where the imperial driver passed.
On the 11th day of the fourth lunar month in the summer, fires broke out in the Linhua Hall of Changle and the East Sima Gate of Weiyang Palace.
On June 23, there was a fire at the main entrance of Ba Cemetery.
Send Du Ling's concubine who has not yet entered the palace back to her hometown.
The edict was issued: In the former case, there was an earthquake in the capital and fires occurred frequently. I was very frightened.
I hope that the relevant ministers will try their best to point out my mistakes, and I will read the memorial myself.
The edict also said: The ancient holy kings prescribed etiquette to order the superior and the inferior, and marked the carriage and uniforms to commend the virtuous. Although you have money but no respect, you must not go beyond the rules of etiquette. Therefore, people pay attention to their own virtues and value righteousness more than profit.
Today's world is full of extravagance and arrogance, and there is no sense of satisfaction.
The ministers, princes, relatives and ministers are the role models for the officials and the people in the four directions. It is rare to hear that among these people, they can cultivate themselves, obey the etiquette, and care about the country.
Some are extravagant and greedy for comfort, and focus on building fields and houses, building villas, keeping livestock and maids, wearing silk and satin, setting up bells and drums in the courtyard, playing female music at home, and going beyond etiquette in carriages, clothing, marriages and burials. The officials and the people envy and imitate them, gradually forming a bad habit of profligacy and waste. How difficult it would be to expect the people to be thrifty to ensure that they have enough food and clothing!
Didn't "Poetry" say it? Majestic Grand Master, the people are looking up to you!
We are now specifically instructing the relevant agencies to restrain and prohibit this extravagant and excessive trend. The two colors of green and green are the common clothes of the people and do not need to be banned.
The princes and ministers should reflect on themselves and make corrections in time, and the Sili Xiaowei should investigate and deal with those who violate the prohibition. On July 30th in autumn, there will be a partial eclipse of the sun.
On the first day of the first month of the first year of Yuanyan, there was a partial solar eclipse. In the third month, he came to Yong and offered sacrifices to the five emperors.
On the first day of April in summer, there were no clouds but thunder, and lightning flashed from all directions to the ground until dusk.
Forgive the world.
In autumn and July, the comet appeared in the Dongjing star area.
The edict said: In the former case, when the sun eclipses and the stars fall, heaven will take responsibility for it, and the heaven and earth will continue to mutate, but the ministers in power are silent and rarely offer loyal advice.
The comet appeared in Dongjing today, and I was deeply frightened.
The ministers, doctors, and ministers should all understand my painstaking efforts. Think carefully about the reasons for the change of heaven and earth, point it out to me clearly, and do not hide anything; you must recommend to each county in the Central Plains one person who is upright and can speak out and give advice.
Each of the twenty-two counties in the border region recommends one person who is brave and knowledgeable in the art of war.
After Xiao He was granted the title of Prime Minister, Xiao happy was made Marquis of Fou.
On November 18th in winter, Great Sima General Wang Shang passed away.
This year, the Zhao family of Zhaoyi killed the prince in the imperial palace.
In the first month of the spring of the second year, I came to Ganquan and offered sacrifices to Mount Tai in the suburbs.
In March, he came to Hedong to offer sacrifices to Hou Tu.
In April of summer, Liu Shou, Prince Xiao of Guangling, was made king.
In winter, he came to Changyang Palace to review military exercises with the foreign guests who came to Beijing to see him. He stayed in Fuyang Palace and rewarded the accompanying officials.
On the tenth day of the first lunar month in the spring of the third year, Minshan Mountain in Shu County collapsed, blocking the river for three days and cutting off the flow of the downstream river.
In February, Lieutenant Chun Yuchang was granted the title of Marquis of Dingling.
In the first month of spring of the fourth year, I came to Ganquan to offer sacrifices to the Thai people.
In February, Sili Xiaowei was dismissed.
The dew fell on the capital, and the people of Chang'an were rewarded with cattle and wine.
In the first month of spring in the first year of Suihe, a general amnesty was granted to the whole world.
On the 9th day of the second lunar month, an edict was issued saying: I have inherited Taizu's great legacy and have been worshiping the ancestral temple for twenty-five years. My virtue is not enough to stabilize the world. There are many people who are resentful and resentful. I have offended God. I have not yet given birth to a prince, and the world has no core to look up to.
Judging from the historical lessons of the past and present, the origin of disasters is often caused by the issue of successors.
Wang Xin of Dingtao is my heir. He is kind and filial. He can inherit the order of heaven and continue the sacrifice.
Now it is decided to make Xin the crown prince.
He granted the title of Marquis of Yixiang to the uncle of the King of Zhongshan, admonishing the official Feng Shen, and increased the number of households in Zhongshan by 30,000 to appease him.
The princes and princes were rewarded with gold, and the heirs of the father in the world were given titles, three elders, filial piety, and fields. The rewards were different.
The edict also said: I have heard that the king must preserve the descendants of the two kings of the previous dynasty, together with the current king himself, to symbolize the three unities of heaven, earth and man.
In the past, King Tang of Shang founded the country as emperor and listed the Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties, but later the sacrifices were abolished.
According to the current examination of his descendants, only Kong Ji is the righteous one, and Kong Ji is specially named the Jiahou of Yin Shao.
In the third month, Jijue of Jin Kong was made a duke, and Tong and Zhou Chengxiu were both dukes, with jurisdiction over hundreds of miles each.
He came to Yongdi and offered sacrifices to the five emperors.
In the fourth month of summer, the General Hussars of the Great Sima was appointed as the Great Sima, and the general officer was dismissed.
The imperial censor was named Da Sikong and was granted the title of Liehou.
With the increase of Da Sima, Da Sikong's salary is the same as that of the Prime Minister.
On the ninth day of the eighth lunar month in autumn, Liu Xing, king of Zhongshan, passed away.
In the eleventh month of winter, Liu Jing, the grandson of King Xiao of Chu, was appointed King of Dingtao.
Chunyu, the Marquis of Dingling, grew up disobedient and was sentenced to death in prison.
Tingwei Kong Guang gave poisonous wine to the deposed queen Xu as an envoy, and he died after drinking the wine.
In December, he dismissed the governor of the Ministry and established the state pastoral office, with a salary of 2,000 shi.
On February 13th, Prime Minister Zhai Fangjin passed away.
On March 18, Emperor Cheng died in Weiyang Palace.
The Empress Dowager ordered relevant agencies to restore the northern and southern suburbs of Chang'an.
On April 11, he was buried in Yanling.
Ban Gu commented: Chen's aunt served as Jieyu in Emperor Cheng's harem. When the father and son brothers received and served her, she told me many times that Emperor Cheng paid great attention to appearance. Get on the car and stand upright, sit upright and look forward, calmly, not gesticulating, and solemn and deep before the court, like a god, which can be called the appearance of Emperor Mu Mu!
Be knowledgeable about the past and understand the present, and adopt straightforward opinions.
The public officials are competent, their memorials are of impressive literary talent, and in times of peace and prosperity, there is harmony between the upper and lower levels.
However, because they indulged in drinking and sex, Sister Zhao Feiyan was in trouble in the inner palace, and the Wang family's relatives were specialized in government affairs, which is sighing to say.
Since the founding era, the Wang family has begun to control the state. Emperor Ai and Emperor Ping did not reign for long, and Wang Mang was able to usurp the throne. Probably the power of the Wang family gradually formed from the time he became emperor.
