Li Shiqi was from Gaoyang, Chenliu.
He likes to study very much, but his family is poor and destitute. He doesn't even have a property that can afford to clothe and feed himself, so he has to work as a lowly clerk looking after the inner door.
But despite this, the wise men and powerful men in the county did not dare to use him casually. People in the county called him "Kangsheng".
When Chen Sheng, Xiang Liang and others rebelled against the Qin Dynasty, dozens of generals passed through Gaoyang when they attacked the city. However, Li Shiqi heard that these people were narrow-minded, liked trivial etiquette, were self-willed, and could not listen to open-minded words. So he lived in seclusion and hid himself, not to cater to these people.
Later, he heard that Pei Gong led troops to capture the city and came to the outskirts of Chenliu. One of Pei Gong's cavalrymen happened to be the son of an old friend of Li Shi's neighborhood. Pei Gong often asked him about the wise men and heroes in his hometown.
One day, when the cavalry came home, Li Shiqi saw him and said to him: I heard that Pei Gong was arrogant and looked down upon others, but he had many far-reaching strategies. This is the person I really want to follow, but I have no one to introduce him to him.
When you see Pei Gong, you can say this to him: There is a Mr. Li in my hometown who is over sixty years old and eight feet tall. People call him a crazy person, but he himself says that he is not a crazy person.
The cavalryman replied: Pei Gong does not like Confucian scholars. Many people came to see him wearing Confucian scholar hats. He immediately took off their hats and urinated in them.
When he talked to people, he often cursed.
So you'd better not lobby him as a Confucian scholar.
Li Shiqi said: Just say it like I taught you.
After the knight returned, he told Pei Gong according to Li Sheng's instructions.
Later, Pei Gong came to Gaoyang, stayed in an inn, and sent someone to summon Li Shiqi to come and see him.
When Li Sheng came to the hotel, Pei Gong sat on the bed with his legs spread apart and asked two women to wash his feet. He called Li Sheng to see him.
Li Sheng went in, only made a long salute without leaning down to worship, and said: "Do you want to help Qin attack the princes, or do you want to lead the princes to destroy Qin?"
Pei Gong scolded: You Confucian scholar!
The people of the world have been suffering from the Qin Dynasty for a long time, so the princes have raised armies to resist the violent Qin one after another. How can you help the Qin Dynasty attack the princes?
Li Sheng said: If you are determined to gather the people and call for volunteers to overthrow the tyrannical and cruel Qin Dynasty, you should not receive the elders in such a arrogant and disrespectful manner.
So Pei Gong immediately stopped washing his feet, tidied his clothes, invited Li Sheng to the guest's seat, and apologized to him.
Li Sheng talked about the strategy used by the six kingdoms to unite vertically and horizontally. Pei Gong was very happy and ordered people to bring rice for Li Sheng to eat. Then he asked: "Then how do you think we should formulate our strategy today?"
Li Sheng said: If you gather the rabble and scattered soldiers, the total is less than 10,000 people. If you use this to directly confront the powerful Qin, it will be what people often say is exploring the tiger's mouth.
Chenliu is an important transportation thoroughfare in the world, extending in all directions. Now there is a lot of grain in the city.
I am very close to the magistrate of Chenliu. Please send me to him to ask him to surrender to you.
If he doesn't obey, you can send troops to attack the city again, and I can act as an internal response in the city.
So Pei Gong sent Li Sheng there and followed closely with his own troops. In this way, he captured Chenliu and gave Li Sheng the title of Lord of Guangye.
Li Sheng recommended his younger brother Li Shang to lead thousands of people to follow Pei Gong to the southwest to capture the city.
Li Sheng himself often served as a lobbyist and traveled among the princes as an envoy.
In the autumn of the third year of the Han Dynasty, Xiang Yu attacked the Han Dynasty and captured Xingyang City. The Han soldiers fled to defend Gong and Luo.
Soon after, the people of Chu heard that Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, had conquered Zhao and that Peng Yue had rebelled many times in Liang, so they sent a group of troops to rescue him.
Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, was attacking Qi to the east. The King of Han was besieged by Xiang Yu many times in Xingyang and Chenggao, so he wanted to give up the territory east of Chenggao and stationed troops in Gong and Luoyi to confront the Chu army.
Li Sheng then commented on this: I heard that those who know why heaven is heaven can achieve the great cause of unification; but those who do not know the reason why heaven is heaven cannot achieve the great cause of unification.
As the king who achieved the great cause of unification, he regarded the common people as his heaven, and the common people regarded food as their heaven.
Aocang has been a place where food has been transported from all over the world for a long time.
I heard that there is a lot of food stored here now. The people of Chu conquered Xingyang, but did not hold on to Aocang. Instead, they led their troops eastward and only sent some criminals to guard Chenggao. This was because God wanted to provide these grains to the Han army.
At present, the Chu army is easily defeated, but we have to retreat and throw away the benefits we want to gain. Privately, I think this is wrong. What's more, two powerful opponents cannot stand side by side at the same time. The war between Chu and Han continued for a long time. The people were restless and the country was in chaos and turmoil. Farmers put down their farm tools and stopped plowing. Weaver girls got off their looms and stopped weaving. They lingered and watched. The people of the world have not yet decided which side their hearts are on.
Therefore, please hurry up and march again, recapture Xingyang, occupy the grain of Aocang, block the dangerous fortress of Chenggao, block the main transportation road of Taihang, control Feihu Pass, guard Baima Jindu, and let the princes see the actual situation today, then the people of the world will know which side to submit to.
Now Yan and Zhao have been pacified, only Qi has not yet been conquered, and Tian Guang occupies the thousands-mile-long Qi. Tian Jian leads an army of 200,000 troops stationed in Licheng. Each Tian clan is powerful. They are backed by the sea, blocked by the Yellow River and Jishui, and are close to Chu in the south. The people of Qi are so many and unpredictable that even if you send hundreds of thousands of troops, it is impossible to defeat it in a year or a few months.
I request to follow your edict to persuade the King of Qi to return him to the Han Dynasty and become a vassal state in the east.
The king of Han replied: "Okay, so be it!"
The King of Han followed Li Sheng's plan and sent troops to defend Aocang again. At the same time, he sent Li Sheng to Qi. Li Sheng said to King Qi: Does your Majesty know where the hearts of the world are headed?
King Qi replied: I don't know.
Li Sheng said: If you know the direction of the people's hearts in the world, then the state of Qi can be preserved. If you don't know the direction of the people of the world, then the state of Qi cannot be preserved.
King Qi asked: To whom do the hearts of the world turn?
Li Sheng said: Return to the King of Han.
King Qi asked again: Why do you say this, sir?
Li Sheng replied: King Han and King Xiang jointly marched westward to attack the Qin Dynasty. They had clearly agreed in front of Emperor Yi that the one who conquered Xianyang first would be crowned king there.
The King of Han first invaded Xianyang, but King Xiang broke the covenant and refused to allow him to become king in Guanzhong, instead allowing him to go to Hanzhong to become king.
King Xiang moved Emperor Yi and sent people to assassinate him. After the King of Han heard the news, he immediately mobilized the Shu Han army to attack the Three Qin Dynasties. He went out of Hangu Pass to inquire where Emperor Yi had moved, gathered the troops from all over the world, and supported the descendants of the former six kingdoms.
When a city is captured, he will immediately grant marquisships to the meritorious generals, and immediately distribute the treasures to the soldiers, sharing the benefits with the world, so those heroes and talented people are willing to serve him.
The armies of the princes came from all directions, and the grain ships of the Shu Han were continuously sent down the river next to the ships.
King Xiang not only had a bad reputation for betraying the covenant, but also had the unjust act of killing the Righteous Emperor; he never remembered the merits of others, but never forgot the sins of others; the soldiers won no rewards for winning battles, and they did not receive titles for capturing cities; it was not their Xiang family. No one in the world is given important treatment; he carves the seal of marquis for those who have meritorious service, and plays with it repeatedly in his hands, unwilling to grant it; he would rather pile up the wealth obtained by attacking the city than give it to everyone; therefore, the people of the world betray him, the outstanding people resent him, and no one is willing to serve him.
Therefore, all the scholars in the world have surrendered to the King of Han, and the King of Han can command them from his seat.
The King of Han led the army of Shu Han to pacify the Three Qin Dynasties, occupied a large area of ​​land outside the Xihe River, led the elite troops of the Shangdang who surrendered, captured Jingxing, and killed Lord Cheng'an; he defeated Wei Bao of Hebei and occupied thirty-two cities: just like the invincible Chi You's army, it did not rely on human strength, but was the result of God's blessing.
Now the king of Han has seized the grain of Aocang, blocked the dangerous fortress of Chenggao, guarded the White Horse Ferry, blocked the main road of Daxing, and guarded the Fehu Pass. If the princes of the world want to surrender in the end, they will be destroyed first.
If you surrender to the King of Han quickly, the state of Qi can still be preserved; if you do not surrender to the King of Han, the moment of peril will come soon.
Tian Guang believed that Li Sheng's words were right, so he obeyed Li Sheng, removed all military defense and war preparations, and drank and had fun with Li Sheng every day.
Han Xin, the Marquis of Huaiyin, heard that Li Sheng had made a trip in the car without any effort, and had captured more than 70 cities in Qi State with his sharp tongue. He was very unconvinced, so he took advantage of the cover of night to lead his troops across the plains to secretly attack Qi State.
King Tian Guang of Qi heard that the Han soldiers had arrived and thought that Li Sheng had betrayed him, so he said to Li Sheng: If you can stop the Han army from attacking, I will let you live. If not, I will cook you to death!
Li Sheng said: People who do great things do not stick to trivial matters, and people with great virtues are not afraid of others' criticism.
Your father will not lobby Han Xin on your behalf!
In this way, the King of Qi killed Li Sheng and led his troops to escape eastward.
In the twelfth year of Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty, Li Shang, the Marquis of Quzhou, led troops to attack Yingbu in his capacity as prime minister.
When Emperor Gaozu was enfeoffing feudal princes and attacking his ministers, he missed Li Shiqi very much.
Li Shiqi's son Li Shi led troops to fight many times, but his military exploits did not reach the level of a marquis. The emperor made Li Shi a Marquis of Gaoliang because of his father.
Later, the place of residence was changed to Wusui, and the title was passed down to three generations.
In the first year of Yuanshou, Li Ping, Marquis of Wu Sui, defrauded King Hengshan of one hundred kilograms of gold by falsely claiming the emperor's order. The crime he committed should have been executed on the street, but at this time, he died of illness and the fiefdom was revoked.
Lu Jia was a native of the Chu State. He followed Emperor Gaozu to pacify the world as a guest of staff. People at that time called him a very eloquent lobbyist, so he accompanied Emperor Gaozu and often traveled to various vassal states as envoys.
When Emperor Gaozu had just pacified the Central Plains, Wei Ta also pacified South Vietnam and established himself as king there.
Emperor Gaozu considered that the world had been settled for the first time, so he did not execute Wei Ta. He also sent Lu Jia with the seal of the King of South Vietnam given to Wei Ta to appoint him.
When Lu Sheng arrived in South Vietnam, he wore his hair in an awl-like bun popular in the area, sat with his legs spread like a dustpan, and met Lu Sheng.
Lu Sheng said to Wei Ta: You are from the Central Plains, and the graves of your relatives, brothers and ancestors are all in Zhending.
But now that you have gone against the customs of the Central Plains people, abandoned your clothes and scarves, and want to use Xiaonan, who has only a small place, to compete with the emperor and become an enemy country, then your disaster will be imminent.
Moreover, the Qin Dynasty was tyrannical and ruthless, and all the princes and heroes rose up one after another. Only the King of Han entered the pass first and occupied Xianyang.
Xiang Yu betrayed the alliance and established himself as the overlord of Western Chu. The princes all belonged to him, and he could be said to be extremely powerful.
But after the King of Han sent troops from Bashu, he conquered the world, pacified the princes, killed Xiang Yu, and destroyed Chu.
Within five years, the world was at peace. This is not something that humans can do, but is the result of God’s help.
Now the Emperor of the Han Dynasty has heard that you are proclaimed king in South Vietnam and is unwilling to help the people of the world to quell the rebellion. The generals and ministers of the Han Dynasty want to lead their troops to destroy you. But the emperor cherishes the people and thinks that they have just experienced the hardships and chaos of the war, so he temporarily stopped the army and sent me to grant you the gold seal of the King of Nanyue, cut the talisman into a letter, and exchange envoys.
You should go to the outskirts to welcome us, face the north, and prostrate yourself as my vassal, but you want to be arrogant and unruly as a small South Vietnam that has just been established and has not yet gathered the people.
If the imperial court finds out about this, digs and burns the tombs of your ancestors, exterminates your clan, and then sends a general to lead a hundred thousand troops to Vietnam, then the South Vietnamese will kill you and surrender to the Han Dynasty, as easy as turning the back of their hand.
After Wei Ta heard this, he immediately stood up and apologized to Lu Sheng: "I have lived among the barbarians for a long time, so it is too rude."
Then, he asked Lu Sheng: Who is more virtuous and talented among me and Xiao He, Cao Shen, and Han Xin?
Lu Sheng said: You seem to be a little stronger than them.
He asked again: "How do I compare with the emperor?"
Li Sheng replied: The emperor raised his troops from Fengpeng, crusaded against the tyrannical Qin Dynasty, wiped out the powerful Chu State, brought benefit and eliminated harm to the people of the whole world, inherited the magnificent achievements of the Five Emperors and Three Emperors, and governed the entire Central Plains.
The Central Plains has a population of hundreds of millions, a land area of ​​thousands of miles, and is located in the most fertile area in the world. It has many people and vehicles, rich products, and government orders come from one family. This grand situation has never happened since the beginning of the world.
But now you only have a few hundred thousand people, and they are all uncivilized barbarians. They live in this cramped place between mountains and seas. They are just like a county in the Han Dynasty. How can you compare with the Han Dynasty!
After Wei Ta heard this, he laughed and said: I can't make a fortune in the Central Plains, so I become the king here.
Even if I occupy the Central Plains, how can I be inferior to the King of Han?
Through conversation, he found out that he liked Lu Sheng very much and left him to drink and have fun with him for several months.
Wei Ta said: No one in South Vietnam can talk to me. It was only after you came here that I heard things every day that I had never heard before.
Wei Ta also gave Lu Sheng a package in a bag, worth thousands of gold, and also gave him many other gifts, also worth thousands of gold.
Lu Sheng finally completed the mission of worshiping him as the king of South Vietnam, making him surrender to the Han Dynasty and obey the control and restraint of the Han Dynasty.
After Lu Jia returned to the court, he reported the above situation to Emperor Gaozu. Emperor Gaozu was very happy and appointed Lu Jia as Taizhong doctor.
Lu Sheng often talked about Confucian classics such as "The Book of Songs" and "The Book of Documents" in front of the emperor. Hearing this, Emperor Gao was very unhappy and cursed at him: Your father's world was built by riding a horse and conquering the north and south, so there is no need for "Poems" and "Books"!
Lu Sheng replied: You can conquer the world on a horse, how can you rule the world on a horse?
Both Shang Tang and Zhou Wu conquered the world with force, and then followed the situation to maintain it with civil rule. Using both civil rule and martial arts was the best way to ensure long-term peace and stability in the country.
In the past, the kings of Wu, Fu Chai and Zhi Bo, both tried their best to show off their martial arts, which led to the destruction of their country; the Qin Dynasty also blindly used harsh torture methods without changing them, which eventually led to its own destruction.
If the Qin Dynasty unified the world and practiced benevolence and righteousness and imitated the ancestors, how could your Majesty conquer the world?
After listening to this, Emperor Gao felt unhappy, with a look of shame on his face, and said to Lu Sheng: "Then please try to summarize the reasons why the Qin Dynasty lost the world and we gained the world, and the reasons for the success and failure of various ancient dynasties."
In this way, Lu Sheng followed the order and briefly discussed the signs and reasons for the rise and fall of the country, writing a total of twelve articles.
Every time he finished writing a piece, he reported it to the emperor. Emperor Gao didn't fail to praise it, and all the ministers around him also cheered for him, calling his book "New Speech".
During the reign of Emperor Xiaohui, the Empress Dowager Lu was in power and wanted to make the Lu family kings. She was afraid of those eloquent ministers. Lu Sheng also knew that his strong arguments would not help, so he resigned and lived at home.
Because the land in Haochang was fertile, he settled here. Lu Sheng had five sons. He took out the bags and packages he received from his mission to South Vietnam and sold them for a thousand gold coins. He distributed them to his sons, each with two hundred gold coins, and let them engage in production.
Lu Sheng himself often traveled around in a carriage drawn by four horses, accompanied by ten attendants who sang, danced, and played music, drums, and harps, and wore a sword worth a hundred gold. He once said to his sons: I have made an agreement with you that when I pass by your house on a trip, I will make sure that my people are well fed and drunk, and I will try my best to meet everyone's requirements. Change one every ten days.
In whose house I die, the sword, chariot, chariot, and attendants will belong to whomever I die.
I also want to go to other friends, so I probably only go to each of your homes two or three times a year. It’s not new to see you all the time. I don’t need to be tired of you doing this all the time.
During the period when Empress Dowager Lu was in power, Zhu Lu was granted the title of king. Zhu Lu took over the power and wanted to kidnap the young master and seize the Liu family's world.
The right prime minister Chen Ping was very worried about this, but because he had limited power and could not forcefully fight, he was afraid of harming himself, so he often thought about it at home.
Once, Lu Sheng went to say hello and sat down next to Chen Ping. At this time, Chen Ping was deep in thought and did not immediately notice Lu Sheng's arrival.
Lu Sheng asked: Why are you so worried?
Chen Ping said: Guess, what am I worried about?
Lu Sheng said: "Your old gentleman is in the position of prime minister, and is a prince with thirty thousand households and households. It can be said that you are extremely rich and prosperous. It should be said that you have no desire in this regard."
However, if you are always worried, it is just because you are worried about Zhu Lu and your young master.
Chen Ping said: You guessed it right. What should you do about this?
Lu Sheng said: When the world is at peace, you should pay attention to the prime minister; when the world is in turmoil, you should pay attention to the generals.
If the generals and the prime minister cooperate tacitly, then the scholars will submit; if the scholars submit, then even if unexpected things happen in the world, the power of the country will not be scattered.
For the sake of the great cause of the country, you and Zhou Bo are in control of this matter.
I often wanted to explain these words to Taiwei Zhou Bo, but he always joked with me and didn't pay much attention to my words.
Why don't you make friends with Taiwei and establish a close relationship?
Then, Lu Sheng planned several ways for Chen Ping to deal with Lu.
Chen Ping used his strategy and gave 500 gold to Jianghou Zhou Bo to celebrate his birthday, and prepared a grand singing and dancing banquet to entertain him; Taiwei Zhou Bo also repaid Chen Ping in the same way.
In this way, Chen Ping and Zhou Bo established a very close relationship, and Lu's conspiracy to usurp power became even more difficult to realize.
Chen Ping also gave Lu Sheng 100 slaves, 50 chariots and horses, and 5 million yuan as food expenses.
Lu Sheng used these expenses to lobby among the ministers of the Han Dynasty, and became very famous.
After Zhu Lu was killed and Emperor Xiaowen ascended the throne, Lu Sheng contributed a lot to this.
After Emperor Xiaowen came to the throne, he wanted to send envoys to South Vietnam.
Prime Minister Chen Ping and others recommended Lu Sheng as the Taizhong doctor, sent him as an envoy to South Vietnam, and ordered the South Vietnamese king Wei to cancel the Yellow House title system and other Vietnamese rituals, and let him adopt the same etiquette and rituals as other princes.
After Lu Sheng went on his mission, he acted accordingly and the emperor's requirements were met, so Emperor Wen was very satisfied.
The specific plot of this matter is recorded in "Biographies of South Vietnam".
Lu Sheng finally died of old age. Pingyuan Marquis Zhu Jian was a native of Chu. At first, he served as the state minister of Huainan King Yingbu, but he left because of his guilt.
Later, he worked under Ying Bu again. When Ying Bu wanted to rebel, he asked Zhu Jian what he thought of the matter, and Zhu Jian strongly opposed it. But Yingbu did not listen to his advice, but did what Liang Fuhou said, so he rebelled.
After the Han Dynasty put down the rebellion and killed Yingbu, I heard that Zhu Jian, the king of Pingyuan, had advised Yingbu not to rebel. At the same time, he did not participate in the conspiracy of rebellion, so he did not kill Zhu Jian.
This matter is recorded in "The Biography of Qingbu".
Zhu Jian, Lord of Pingyuan, was eloquent and eloquent. At the same time, he was upright and adhered to the integrity and selfless integrity. Home is in Chang'an.
He never agrees casually with his words or deeds, adheres to moral principles and refuses to bend to please others.
Piyanghou Shenshi's behavior was not upright, and he won the favor of Empress Dowager Lu through flattery.
At that time, Marquis Piyang wanted to be on good terms with Lord Pingyuan, but Lord Pingyuan refused to see him.
When Pingyuanjun's mother passed away, Lu Sheng and Pingyuanjun had always been very close, so they went to express their condolences.
Mr. Pingyuan was from a poor family and did not even have the money to pay for his mother's funeral. He was about to borrow money to buy funeral supplies, but Lu Sheng told Mr. Pingyuan to just pay for the funeral without borrowing money.
Then Lu Sheng went to Piyanghou's home and congratulated him, saying: Pingyuanjun's mother passed away.
Marquis Piyang said in confusion: Mr. Pingyuan's mother is dead, why do you congratulate me?
Lu Sheng said: "You have always wanted to be on good terms with Mr. Pingyuan before, but he was a moral person and refused to associate with you. This was because of his mother."
Now that his mother has passed away, if you give him generous gifts for his mother's funeral, then he will definitely be willing to work desperately for you.
So Piyanghou sent a generous gift worth one hundred gold to Pingyuanjun.
At that time, many princes and nobles also sent money and goods worth a total of five hundred gold because of the heavy gifts given by the Marquis of Piyang.
Marquis Piyang was particularly favored by Empress Dowager Lu. Some people spoke ill of him in front of Emperor Xiaohui. Emperor Xiaohui was furious and arrested him and handed him over to the officials for interrogation, and wanted to take this opportunity to kill him.
Empress Dowager Lu felt ashamed and could not intercede for him.
Most of the ministers hated Piyanghou's scandalous behavior and wanted to take this opportunity to kill him.
Marquis Piyang was very anxious, so he sent someone to send a message to Lord Pingyuan, saying that he wanted to see him.
But Mr. Pingyuan declined and said: Your case is very tight now, and I dare not meet you.
Then Lord Pingyuan asked to see Hong Jiru, Emperor Xiaohui's favorite, and persuaded him: "Everyone in the world knows the reason why the emperor loves you."
Now the Marquis of Piyang is favored by the Queen Mother, but he is arrested and imprisoned. People all over the city say bad things about you and want to kill you.
If Marquis Piyang is killed by the emperor today, then the Queen Mother will get angry tomorrow morning and will kill you too.
Why don't you take off your shirt and go to the emperor to ask for a favor for Marquis Piyang?
If the emperor listens to your words and releases Piyanghou, the Queen Mother will definitely be very happy.
If both the Queen Mother and the Emperor dote on you, you will be doubly wealthy.
So Hong Jiru was very frightened, so he followed Lord Pingyuan's advice and interceded with the emperor to release Piyanghou. As expected, the emperor released Piyanghou.
When Piyanghou was imprisoned, he wanted to see Lord Pingyuan, but Lord Pingyuan refused to see Piyanghou. Piyanghou thought it was betraying him, so he was very angry with him.
He was particularly surprised when he was successfully rescued by Pingyuan Jun.
After the death of Queen Mother Lu, the ministers killed Zhu Lu. The relationship between Piyanghou and Zhu Lu was very close, but he was not killed in the end.
The plan to save Piyanghou's life was realized because of the power of Lu Sheng and Pingyuan Jun.
During the period of Emperor Xiaowen, King Li of Huainan killed Marquis Piyang because of his close relationship with Zhu Lu.
Emperor Wen also heard that many of Piyang Hou's affairs were planned by his retainer Pingyuan Jun, so he sent officials to arrest him and try to punish him.
When he heard that the officials had arrived at his door, Pingyuan Jun wanted to commit suicide. His sons and the officials who came to arrest him all said: It is not clear what the outcome of the matter is. Why did you commit suicide so early?
Lord Pingyuan said to his sons: After I die alone, the disaster to our family will be gone, and you will not be implicated.
In this way, he drew his sword and committed suicide.
Emperor Xiaowen was very sorry to hear this and said: I didn't mean to kill him.
In order to express comfort to his family, Emperor Wen summoned his son to the court and appointed him as Taizhong doctor.
Later, when he was sent as an envoy to the Xiongnu, he cursed the Chanyu because he was arrogant and rude, and died in the Xiongnu.
When Pei Gong led his troops through Chenliu, Li Sheng went to the military gate and handed over his business card and said: "The humble people of Gaoyang are hungry for food. I heard privately that Pei Gong was running around in the open air, working tirelessly and leading people to help the Chu army to conquer the tyrannical and unjust Qin Dynasty. I would like to ask you, my entourage, to go in and tell me that I want to see Pei Gong and talk to him about world affairs."
The envoy went in to report. While washing his feet, Pei Gong asked the envoy: What kind of person is this person?
The messenger replied: He looks like a learned boy, wearing the clothes of a scholar and a towering mountain crown on his head.
Pei Gong said: Please refuse him for me, saying that I am busy with the important affairs of peace in the world and have no time to see Confucian scholars.
The envoy came out to apologize and said: Mr. Pei Gong would like to thank you. He is busy with the great affairs of the world and has no time to meet with Confucian scholars.
After hearing this, Li Sheng's eyes widened, holding a sword, he scolded the messenger and said: Hurry up!
Go and tell Pei Gong again that I am a drunkard of Gaoyang, not a Confucian scholar.
When the messenger saw this, he was so frightened that he dropped his business card on the ground. Then he knelt down to pick it up, quickly turned around and ran in, and reported to Pei Gong again: The guest outside is truly a hero in the world.
Pei Gong immediately wiped his feet, held his spear in his hand and said: Invite the guests in!
After Li Sheng entered, he bowed to Pei Gong with equal etiquette and said: "Pei Gong, you have been working outside for many years with your clothes exposed. It is very hard. You led the troops and the Chu army to conquer the tyrannical and cruel Qin Dynasty, but Pei Gong, why don't you respect yourself at all?"
I wanted to see you on the pretext of discussing world affairs, but what did you say? I am busy trying to bring peace to the world and have no time to meet with Confucian scholars.
You want to pacify the world and achieve the greatest achievements in the world, but if you look at people based on their appearance, you may lose those capable people in the world.
Besides, I think your intelligence is not as good as mine, and your bravery and strength are not as good as mine. If you want to achieve the great cause of pacifying the world and don't want to see me, I think you have lost a talent.
Pei Gong quickly apologized to him and said: I only heard about your appearance just now, but now I really understand your intentions.
So he asked him to take a seat and asked him about his clever strategies to pacify the world.
Li Sheng said: "Pei Gong, if you want to achieve the great goal of unifying the world, it is better to occupy Chenliu first."
Chenliu is a transportation hub that can be defended in all directions, and it is also a battleground for military strategists. There are tens of millions of stones of grain stored in the city, and the city walls are very fortified.
Chen Liu and I have always been very good at keeping orders. I want to go to you to persuade him to surrender to you.
If he doesn't listen to me, please allow me to kill him for you, and then take Chen Liu.
Pei Gong, you lead Chenliu's generals, occupy the fortified Chenliu city, eat Chenliu's stored grain, and gather people from all over the world who want to join you. When your army becomes stronger, you will be invincible and dominate the world, and no one will be able to pose a threat to you.
Pei Gong said: I completely obey your teachings.
So Li Sheng went to see Chen Liushou Ling that night and persuaded him: The Qin Dynasty was tyrannical and unjust and everyone in the world was against it. Now you can achieve great success by rebelling with the people in the world, but you are alone to defend the city of the Qin Dynasty that is about to perish. Privately, I am deeply worried about your dangerous situation.
Chen Liushou Ling said: The laws of the Qin Dynasty are strict and without punishment. You can't talk nonsense casually. If you do this, the clan will be exterminated. I can't do what you say.
What your old gentleman taught me was not my intention. Please stop saying it.
That night, Li Sheng stayed in the city to rest. At midnight, he quietly beheaded Chen Liushou Ling, jumped over the wall, and reported to Pei Gong.
Pei Gong led his troops to attack the city. He hung the head of the county magistrate on a flagpole and showed it to the people in the city, saying: Surrender quickly. We have chopped off the heads of you who were keeping the order!
Whoever surrenders later must be killed first!
At this time, Chen Liuren saw that Shou Ling was dead, so they surrendered to Pei Gong one after another.
After Pei Gong entered the city, he lived on the upper floor of Chenliu's south city gate. He used the weapons in Chenliu's arsenal and ate the food stored in the city. He stayed here for three months and raised tens of thousands of troops. Then he entered the pass to attack the Qin Dynasty.
Tai Shigong said: Most of the biographies about Li Sheng circulating in the world today say that after the King of Han pacified the Three Qin Dynasties, he returned to the east to attack Xiang Yu and led the army to move between Gong and Luo. Li Shengcai went to lobby the King of Han in Confucian clothes.
This statement is wrong.
The actual situation is that before Peigong invaded Hangu Pass, he separated from Xiang Yu and came to Gaoyang, where he acquired the two Lisheng brothers.
I read twelve chapters of Lu Jia's "Xinyu", and I can see that he is truly a rare great debater in the contemporary era.
Mr. Pingyuan's son and I have a very good relationship, so I can record all the above in detail.
