Prime Minister Gongsun Hong was from Xue County, Sichuan State, Qi Prefecture, and his cousin's name was Ji.
When he was young, he worked as a prison officer in Xue County, but was dismissed due to his crimes.
His family was poor and had to go to the beach to herd pigs.
It wasn’t until he was in his forties that he studied the Spring and Autumn Annals and various works explaining the Spring and Autumn Annals.
He raised his stepmother with filial piety and prudence.
In the first year of Emperor Wu's founding, as soon as the emperor came to the throne, he recruited virtuous and literary people.
At this time, Gongsun Hong was sixty years old. He was recruited to Beijing as a virtuous person and became a doctor.
He was ordered to go on a mission to the Huns and reported the situation to Emperor Wu when he came back. The situation did not suit the emperor's wishes. The emperor was angry and thought Gongsun Hong was incompetent, so Gongsun Hong was excused from his post and returned home on the pretext of illness.
In the fifth year of Emperor Yuanguang's reign, the emperor issued an edict to recruit literature, and the Sichuan Kingdom recommended Gongsun Hong.
Gongsun Hong refused to give in to the people and said: I have gone west to the capital to accept the emperor's appointment, but I resigned from office because of incompetence and returned. Hope to change the recommended candidate.
However, the people of the country resolutely recommended Gongsun Hong, and Gongsun Hong went to Taichang.
Taichang asked the more than 100 Confucian scholars recruited to make countermeasures respectively, and Gongsun Hong's countermeasures articles were ranked last.
All countermeasure articles were sent to the emperor, and Emperor Wu promoted Gongsun Hong's countermeasure article to first place.
Gongsun Hong was summoned to see the emperor. Emperor Wu saw that he was very beautiful and made him a doctor.
At this time, the Han Dynasty opened a road to the southwestern Yi and set up counties and counties there. The people of Bashu felt poor about this, and the emperor ordered Gongsun Hong to inspect it.
Gongsun Hong returned from his inspection and reported to the emperor that it was useless to try his best to slander the southwestern barbarians. The emperor did not adopt his opinions.
Gongsun Hong was a majestic and strange man with extensive knowledge. He often said that the fault of the master is that he is not broad-minded, and the fault of the minister is that he is not frugal.
Gongsun Hong covered himself with a quilt and did not eat more than two kinds of meat or vegetables when eating.
When his stepmother died, he stayed in mourning for three years.
Every time he went to court to discuss political affairs with everyone, he always stated various things at the beginning and let the emperor make his own decisions. He refused to refute him face to face or argue in court.
So the emperor observed him and found that he was honest in character, good at talking, familiar with documents, laws and official affairs, and he could also use Confucian views to embellish him. The emperor liked him very much.
Within two years, he was promoted to Zuo Neishi.
Gongsun Hong reported matters to the emperor, but sometimes they were not accepted and he did not argue in the court.
He once asked the emperor to meet him in his spare time with his lord lieutenant Ji An. Ji An first asked the emperor a question, and Gongsun Hong then explained the problem clearly, and the emperor was often very happy.
Everything he said was accepted. From then on, Gongsun Hong became closer to the emperor day by day, and his status became more prominent.
He had made an agreement in advance with the ministers about the issues he wanted to discuss with the emperor, but when he came before the emperor, he broke the agreement and obeyed the emperor's will. Ji An rebuked Gongsun Hong at the court and said: Most of the people in Qi are deceitful and have no true feelings. He made this suggestion with us at the beginning, but now they have all violated it and are not loyal.
The emperor asked Gongsun Hong, and Gongsun Hong apologized and said: People who know me think I am loyal, people who don't know me think I am disloyal.
The emperor agreed with Gongsun Hong's statement.
The favored ministers around the emperor often slandered Gongsun Hong, but the emperor treated Gongsun Hong more and more favorably.
In the third year of Emperor Wu's Yuanshuo reign, Zhang Ou was dismissed from office, and the emperor appointed Gongsun Hong as the imperial censor.
At this time, the Han Dynasty was opening up the southwestern barbarians, setting up Canghai County in the east and Shuofang County in the north.
Gongsun Hong repeatedly advised the emperor, believing that these practices were exhausting China and running useless places, and hoped to stop doing these things.
Therefore, Emperor Wu asked Zhu Maichen and others to use the favorable situation of setting up Shuofang County to question Gongsun Hong.
Zhu Maichen and others asked ten questions, but Gongsun Hong couldn't answer any of them.
Gongsun Hong apologized and said: I am a humble person from Shandong. I didn't know the benefits of building Shuo County. I hope to stop connecting with the southwestern Yi and setting up Canghai County, and concentrate on running Shuofang County.
The emperor agreed.
Ji An said: Gongsun Hong is in the position of the third Duke and has a lot of salary, but he is covered with quilt. This is fraud.
The emperor asked Gongsun Hong, and Gongsun Hong apologized and said: "There is such a thing."
Among the nine ministers, there is no one who is as good to me as Ji An, but he really hit on my fault when he challenged me in court today.
I have the noble status of the Three Lords but I cover myself with a blanket. It is indeed a clever deception in an attempt to gain a good reputation.
Moreover, I heard that Guan Zhong was the prime minister of Qi and had three residences. His luxury was comparable to that of the king of Qi. Duke Huan of Qi relied on Guan Zhong to dominate, which was also an act of disrespect for the superior king.
Yan Ying was the prime minister of Qi Jinggong. He did not eat more than two kinds of meat and vegetables during meals, and his concubines did not wear silk clothes. Qi State was governed very well. This is because Yan Ying looked after the people below.
Now that I am a royal censor, I am covered with a quilt. This means that there is no distinction between high and low among officials from Jiuqing and below, just like what Ji An said.
Besides, without Ji An's loyalty, how could His Majesty hear these words!
Emperor Wu thought that Gongsun Hong was humble and courteous, so he treated him more favorably. Finally, he made Gongsun Hong the prime minister and granted him the title of Marquis of Pingjin.
Gongsun Hong was suspicious and jealous, magnanimous on the outside, but deep inside.
Those who had enmity with Gongsun Hong, although Gongsun Hong got along well with them on the surface, he secretly caused trouble to others and took revenge.
It was Gongsun Hong's idea to kill his father Yan and reassign Dong Zhongshu to Jiaoxi as prime minister.
He only ate a meat dish and shelled coarse rice for each meal. His old friends and his favorite hangers-on all relied on him to provide food and clothing. Gongsun Hong's salary was used to provide for them, and the family had no money left.
Scholars all thought he was wise for this reason.
The king of Huainan and the king of Hengshan rebelled, and when the court was in a hurry to investigate the accomplices, Gongsun Hong became seriously ill. He felt that he had no merit and was made a marquis. His official position was promoted to prime minister. He should assist the wise king to appease the country and make everyone follow the principles of being a minister.
Nowadays, the princes have plots to rebel against the imperial court. This is all the result of the prime minister's incompetence in his work. He is afraid that if he dies of illness silently, there will be no way to evade the responsibility.
So he wrote to the emperor and said: I heard that there are five kinds of normal ways in the world, and there are three kinds of virtues used to implement these five kinds of normal ways.
The order of king and minister, father and son, brother, husband and wife, and elder and younger are the common principles of the world.
Wisdom, benevolence and courage, these three aspects are the common virtues in the world and are used to practice the common way.
Therefore Confucius said: Working hard to practice is close to benevolence, liking to inquire is close to wisdom, knowing shame is close to courage.
If you know these three situations, you will know how to cultivate yourself. Know how to cultivate yourself, and then know how to govern others.
There is no one in the world who cannot cultivate himself but can govern others. This is a truth that remains unchanged for generations.
Now His Majesty personally practices great filial piety and uses the three kings as a reference to establish a way of governing the country like that of the Zhou Dynasty. It combines the talents and virtues of King Wen and King Wu, encourages talented people, gives them salaries, and awards official positions according to their talents.
Now that my talents are low and I have no hard work, Your Majesty specially promoted me from the ranks, made me a prince, and placed me in the position of the three princes.
My character and ability are not commensurate with this high official position, and I am often sick. I am afraid that I will die before your majesty's dogs and horses, and I will ultimately be unable to repay your majesty's kindness and prevarication.
I hope to return Hou Yin, resign and return home to make way for the sage.
Emperor Wu replied to him: In ancient times, people with meritorious service were rewarded and people with virtue were praised. To preserve the achievements of our ancestors, we must advocate literary and moral education, and when encountering disasters, we must advocate martial arts. This principle has not changed.
I was lucky enough to inherit the throne in the past, but I was afraid of being unrest and wanted to rule the world together with all the ministers. You should know this.
Gentlemen like kind people and hate ugly people. If you act carefully, you can always stay by my side.
Unfortunately, you are suffering from frost, dew, wind and cold. Why worry about not being cured? You actually submitted a letter to Hou Yin, resigned and returned home. This is to show my immorality!
Now that things are a little less complicated, you should reduce your thoughts, concentrate, and use medical assistance for treatment.
Therefore, Emperor Wu allowed Gongsun Hong to continue his leave and gave him cattle, wine and various cloths.
After a few months, Gongsun Hong's condition improved greatly, and he began to deal with political affairs.
The year before last, Gongsun Hong fell ill and eventually died as prime minister.
His son Gongsun Du inherited the title of Marquis of Pingjin.
Gongsun Du had been the governor of Shanyang for more than ten years, but he lost his title as a marquis for breaking the law.
Zhu Fuyan was a native of Linyi, Qidi. He studied the theories of political advisors during the Warring States Period. In his later years, he began to study the Zhouyi, Spring and Autumn Annals, and the theories of hundreds of schools of thought.
He traveled among many scholars in Qi, but no one was willing to treat him favorably.
Many scholars in Qi State rejected him together, making it impossible for him to stay in Qi State.
His family was poor and he couldn't borrow money from others, so he went to Yan, Zhao and Zhongshan in the north to study. No one in any place treated him favorably, so it was difficult to be a guest.
In the first year of Emperor Xiaowu's Yuanguang year, he thought that all the vassal states were not worthy of study tours, so he went west to Hanguguan to meet General Wei Qing.
General Wei Qing recommended him to the emperor many times, but the emperor refused to summon him.
The money he brought had been spent, and he had been staying in Chang'an for a long time. The guests of the princes hated him, so he wrote to the emperor.
In the morning he presented the memorial, and in the evening the emperor summoned him.
Of the nine things he said, eight were about laws and regulations, and one was about the conquest of the Huns.
The original text says this:
I heard that a wise monarch does not dislike deep advice but observes widely, and a loyal minister does not dare to escape heavy punishment but speaks out advice. Therefore, good policies in handling national affairs cannot be lost, and the reputation will be passed down to the ages.
Now I dare not hide my loyalty and escape death, but I want to state my foolish thoughts to you. I hope that your majesty will forgive my sins and examine my thoughts a little.
"Sima Fa" says: Although the country is big, if it likes war, it will surely perish; although the world is peaceful, if it forgets war, it will be in danger.
The world has been peaceful, the emperor plays the music of "Dakai", and hunting activities are held in spring and autumn. The princes reorganize the army in spring and train the army in autumn, so as not to forget the war.
Moreover, anger is an act of rebellion, weapons are ominous, and fighting is the worst moral integrity.
In ancient times, whenever a ruler got angry, his corpse would lie on the ground and blood would spread all over the land. Therefore, the wise emperor was very cautious in dealing with anger.
Those who are committed to winning wars and resorting to militarism will always regret it in the end.
In the past, Qin Shihuang relied on his military power to defeat his opponents, encroaching on the world, annexing various warring countries, and unifying the world. His achievements were the same as those of the founding kings of the Xia, Shang, and Zhou dynasties.
But he was determined to win and refused to give up. He actually wanted to attack the Huns. Li Si advised: "You cannot attack the Xiongnu."
The Xiongnu had no city to live in and no accumulation of property to defend. They moved around like birds flying, making it difficult to catch and control them.
If a light army is sent deep into the Xiongnu, the army's food supplies will be cut off; if a large amount of food is sent into the Xiongnu, it will be heavy and difficult to transport, and it will not help.
Even if we get the land of the Xiongnu, there is no profit to be gained, and when we encounter the Xiongnu people, we cannot use them to protect them.
To defeat them is to kill them, which is not what a king who is the father of his people should do.
It is not a good policy to make the country tired and enjoy fighting the Huns.
Qin Shihuang did not adopt Li Si's suggestion, so he sent Meng Tian to lead his troops to attack the Xiongnu, opening up thousands of miles of land and using the Yellow River as the national boundary.
These lands are originally saline-alkali lands and do not produce grains.
After that, the Qin Dynasty mobilized adult men from all over the country to guard the Beihe area.
The army stayed in the wind, sand and sun for more than ten years. Countless people died, and they were never able to cross the Yellow River and march north.
Is this because there are not enough people and weapons and equipment?
No, this is not allowed by the situation!
The Qin Dynasty also asked people all over the world to quickly transport grain and grass, starting from the counties near the sea in Huang County, Xiang County and Langxie County, and then transferring it to Beihe. Generally speaking, it took thirty minutes to transport grain to get one stone.
Men's hard work in farming cannot meet the needs of food and wages, and women's spinning of linen and linen cannot meet the needs of the army's curtains.
The people were exhausted, orphans, widows, old and weak people were provided for, and people died one after another on the road. Probably because of these reasons, the people of the world began to rebel against the Qin Dynasty.
When Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty pacified the world and captured the border lands, he heard that the Huns were gathering outside the valley of Daijun, so he wanted to attack them.
Yushi Chengjin admonished: Do not attack the Xiongnu.
The habits of the Xiongnu are like the gathering of animals and the flight of birds. Chasing them is like catching shadows.
Now I think it is dangerous to rely on His Majesty's virtue to attack the Huns.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty did not accept his suggestion and marched north to the valley of Daijun. As expected, he was in danger of being besieged by Pingcheng.
Emperor Gao of the Han Dynasty probably regretted it, so he sent Liu Jing to the Xiongnu to conclude a peace treaty. After that, people all over the world forgot about the war.
Therefore, "Sun Tzu's Art of War" says: Sending an army of one hundred thousand will cost thousands of gold every day.
The Qin Dynasty often gathered hundreds of thousands of people and troops. Although it had military achievements in annihilating enemy troops, killing enemy generals, and capturing the Xiongnu Chanyu, it was just enough to create deep hatred and hatred, and it was not enough to compensate for the resources consumed by the country.
This kind of thing that empties the national treasury at the top and exhausts the people at the bottom, and is famous abroad but makes the heart happy, is not a perfect thing.
That the Xiongnu was difficult to control was not a matter of one generation.
They steal wherever they go, plunder and drive, this is their profession, this is their nature.
Therefore, from the Yushun, Xia, Shang and Zhou dynasties, they did not supervise them according to the requirements of law and morality. They only treated them as animals, not as human beings.
We do not learn from the experience of Yu, Xia, Shang and Zhou, but follow the wrong practices of modern times. This is my biggest worry and is what makes the people feel painful.
Moreover, if the war lasts for a long time, chaos will occur; if things are difficult, thoughts will change.
This made the people on the border tired and miserable, and made the generals and officials suspicious of each other and colluded with foreigners, so that Wei Tuo and Zhang Han could realize their personal ambitions.
The reason why the Qin Dynasty's decrees could not be implemented was because the power of the country was divided between these two people. This is the effect of political gains and losses.
Therefore, "Book of Zhou" says: The safety of a country depends on the decrees issued by the king, and the survival of the country depends on the people the king uses.
I hope that your Majesty will examine this issue carefully, pay some attention to it, and think deeply about it.
At this time, Xu Le from Zhao and Yan An from Qi both wrote to the emperor to talk about major contemporary events, and each of them talked about one thing.
Xu said in his letter: I heard that the country's worry lies in the collapse of the country, not in disintegration. It has been the same from ancient times to the present.
What is landslide?
This was the case in the last years of the Qin Dynasty.
Chen She did not have the noble status of the princes, nor did he have an inch of fiefdom. He was not a descendant of a prince or a famous noble. He did not have the praise of his hometown people. He did not have the talents of Confucius, Mo Zhai, and Zeng Shen, and he did not have the wealth of Tao Zhu and Yidun. However, he raised troops from the poor countryside, brandishing halberds and spears, shouting with bare arms, and the people of the world responded to the news. What is the reason?
This is because the people are poor but the monarch does not know how to show consideration and care, the people are resentful but those in power do not know it, the secular world has been corrupted but the politics are not enlightened. These three are the objective conditions that Chen She relies on. This is called landslide.
Therefore, the country's worry lies in the collapse of the country.
What is disintegration?
This was the case with the military rebellions of Wu, Chu, Qi, and Zhao.
Wu, Chu and other seven kingdoms conspired to rebel. They all claimed to be kings of ten thousand chariots, and they had hundreds of thousands of armored warriors. Their majesty was enough to make the people of their feudal states fear them, and their wealth was enough to encourage the people of their feudal states. However, they could not seize a large amount of land to the west, but they themselves were captured in the Central Plains. What was the reason?
It's not that they have less power than the common people, or that their military strength is smaller than Chen She's, it's because at that time, the former emperor's ideas had not yet weakened, and there were many people who were content with their country and liked the customs, so the princes did not receive assistance from outside the country. This is called disintegration.
Therefore, the country’s worry is not disintegration.
It can be seen from this that if the world is in a state of collapse, even if it is the common people in poverty, as long as one of them takes the initiative to cause trouble, the country may be harmed. This is the case with Chen She, not to mention that there may be kings like the Three Jins!
Even if the country does not have great governance, if it is really not in a state of collapse, even if there are powerful countries and powerful armies who rise up to rebel, they will be captured and destroyed in a blink of an eye. This is the case with Wu, Chu, Qi, Zhao and other countries, not to mention the officials and the people who rise up to rebel!
These two situations are obviously fundamental to the country's security. I hope that wise monarchs will pay more attention to them and investigate them deeply.
The grain harvest in the Kanto region has been poor recently, and the economy has not yet recovered. Most of the people are very poor. In addition, there are wars along the border. Judging from the development of the situation and common sense, the people will not be able to feel at ease in the local area.
If you are not at ease with your local area, it will be easy to flow, and if you are easy to flow, it will lead to a collapse of the situation.
Therefore, a wise monarch can alone see the various causes of changes in all things, clearly understand the key to safety, and only manage political affairs at the court, so as to eliminate unforeseen disasters.
The most critical thing is to try to prevent the country from falling apart.
Therefore, even if there is a powerful country and a powerful army, Your Majesty can still chase animals, shoot birds, expand the venues for banquets, watch and play with unrestrained indulgence, and enjoy the joy of riding horses and hunting, all in peace and ease.
The sound of playing various musical instruments is endless, the love with the beautiful woman in the curtain and the laughter of the actor and dwarf appear in front of me, but the country has no long-standing worries.
Why does fame have to be like that of King Tang of Shang and King Wu of Zhou, and why does the secular world have to be as pure and beautiful as that of King Cheng and King Kang of Zhou!
Once these two conditions are established, you can then be in a practical position of honor and safety, spread your good name in the contemporary era, expand your reputation, make people in the world close to you, and make people in the far corners of the world obey you. Your kindness and legacy will be passed down for generations. Facing the south, leaning against the screen, rolling up your sleeves, and bowing to the princes and nobles, this is what your majesty does. I heard that if you want to implement the king's way and govern the country, even if you don't succeed, the worst result can be to make the country peaceful.
As long as there is peace, is there anything your Majesty can't get if you want it? Is there anything you want to do that you can't do?
Who do you want to conquer? Is there anyone who refuses to surrender?
Yan An wrote a letter saying:
I heard that the Zhou Dynasty governed the world and governed the country very well for more than 300 years. The periods of King Cheng and King Kang were the most prosperous, and punishments were suspended for more than 40 years.
It took more than three hundred years until the political decline of the Zhou Dynasty, so the five hegemons could rise in turn.
The Five Hegemons often assist the emperor, promote benefits and eliminate harm, punish cruelty, prohibit evil, and support the right path in the world, so that the emperor can be honored.
After the death of all the five hegemons, there was no successor to the sage, leaving the emperor in an isolated and weak position, unable to issue orders.
The princes acted arbitrarily, the powerful bullied the weak, and those with many harmed those with few. Tian Chang usurped the power of Qi State, and the six ministers divided the land of Jin. Together, they formed the situation of disputes in the Warring States Period, which was the beginning of the suffering of the people.
Therefore, the strong countries are committed to war, while the weak countries prepare for war and defense, and the strategies of vertical and horizontal alliances emerge. Envoys' cars rush about at high speed, soldiers' armors and helmets are full of lice, and the people's sufferings have nowhere to complain.
During the Qin Dynasty, he encroached on the world and occupied the Warring States Period, claiming the title of emperor. Unify the domestic politics, destroy the capitals of the vassal states, destroy the weapons of the vassal states, and melt them into Zhongfu to show that they will no longer use force.
Only kind-hearted civilians can avoid the disasters of war. When they meet the wise emperor, everyone thinks they have gained a new life.
If the Qin Dynasty relaxed its punishments, levied less taxes, reduced corvee, respected benevolence and righteousness, despised power and interests, advocated loyalty, despised wisdom, changed customs, and educated the people in the country, then there would be peace for generations to come.
However, the Qin Dynasty did not promote this kind of politics, but followed the customs of the past, allowing those who specialized in clever and powerful things to be employed, while those who were loyal and honest were repulsed; the law was harsh, the politics was severe, and there were many flatterers. Hearing their praises every day, they were satisfied and imagined.
Wanting to show off his power overseas, he sent Meng Tian to lead his troops to attack the Xiongnu in the north, expand the land, advance the country's borders, and guard the area north of the Yellow River, asking the people to rush to transport grain and grass and follow them.
He also sent the lieutenant Tu Sui to lead the navy to attack Baiyue in the south, and sent the censor Shi Lu to dig a canal to transport grain and penetrate deeper into the country, causing more people to escape.
After a long stalemate, food was exhausted. The Yue people attacked the Qin soldiers, and the Qin soldiers were defeated.
Qin then sent Zhao Tuo to lead troops to guard the territory of Yue.
At this time, the Qin Dynasty was enmity with the Xiongnu in the north and the Yue in the south. It stationed troops in useless places and could only advance but not retreat.
After more than ten years, adult men put on armor and went to the battlefield, and adult women transported food. They were in pain and unable to live. Some hung from trees by the roadside, and they died one after another.
When Qin Shihuang died, most people in the world rebelled against the Qin Dynasty.
Chen Sheng and Wu Guang captured Chen County, Wu Chen and Zhang Er captured Zhao Di, Xiang Liang captured Wu County, Tian Dan captured Qi Di, Jing Ju captured Ying, Zhou Shi captured Wei Di, Han Guang captured Yan Di, poor mountains and deep valleys, heroes and warriors rose up together, and I can't even remember them all.
However, they are not the descendants of princes, nor are they subordinates of high officials. They have no small power. They rise from the alleys, armed with halberds and spears, and act according to the current situation. They raise armies at the same time without planning in advance, meet at the same time without agreement, continue to expand the land, and finally become overlords. This is what the education at that time made them like.
The Qin State was a noble emperor and a rich man who owned the world, but his country and family perished. This was the result of military violence.
Therefore, the defeat of the Zhou Dynasty was due to the weakness of the country, and the defeat of the Qin Dynasty was due to the strength of the country. This is a reason that will not change with time.
Now I want to recruit the Southern Yi to surrender, send Yelang to come to worship, surrender the Qiang and Bo, conquer the state, build a city, penetrate deeply into the Xiongnu, and burn their dragon city. Everyone who discusses this matter praises it.
This is the interest of the minister, not the long-term plan of the world.
Nowadays, China is not disturbed by barking dogs, but it is burdened by preparations for war in distant places, which makes the country ruined. This is not a way to raise people.
To realize endless desires, to make one's mind happy, and to have grudges with the Huns, this is not a way to stabilize the frontier.
Resentments that cannot be eliminated, wars that cease and re-emerge, causing sorrow to those close by and horror to those far away are not lasting solutions.
Nowadays, the whole country is forging armor, sharpening swords, straightening arrow shafts, accumulating bow strings, and transporting grain. There is no end in sight. This is a common concern for the people of the whole country.
If the war lasts for a long time, changes will occur, things will be complicated, and doubts will arise.
Nowadays, there are thousands of miles of land in the outer counties and dozens of cities. The geographical situation of the mountains and rivers can control the people and coerce the nearby princes. This is not the interest of the royal family.
Look at the reason why Qi and Jin were destroyed in history. It was because the power of the officialdom was declining and the power of the Six Ministers was too great. Let’s look at the reason why Qin fell. It was because of the harsh criminal laws and endless desires.
Nowadays, the power of the county governor is not only as great as that of the six ministers; the land of thousands of miles is not just the use of Luxiang; the armor weapons and various ordnance are not just the use of halberds and spears. Under such objective conditions, if there is a major upheaval in the world, the consequences cannot be denied.
Xu Le and Yan An's memorials were sent to the emperor. The emperor summoned his father Yan, Xu Le and Yan An and said to them: "Where are you all?"
Why did we meet so late?
So Emperor Wu appointed the three of them as doctors. Master Fu Yan visited the emperor many times and discussed political affairs.
The emperor ordered him to be appointed as an emissary, and he was promoted to a senior official. In one year, Zhu Fuyan's position was promoted four times.
The master's father Yan persuaded the emperor: In ancient times, the land of the princes did not exceed a hundred miles, and the situation of strength and weakness was easy to control.
Some of today's princes actually own dozens of connected cities, and their land spans thousands of miles. When the situation in the world is relaxed, it is easy for them to be proud and extravagant and engage in lewd things. When the situation is urgent, they rely on their strength to unite to rebel against the court.
Now if their land is forcibly reduced by law, then they will rebel. This was the case with Chao Cuo in the past.
Nowadays, there are as many as a dozen children of princes, but only the eldest son inherits from generation to generation. Although the rest are also the flesh and blood of princes and kings, they have no land title, so the way of benevolence and filial piety cannot be shown.
I hope that your majesty will order the princes to promote kindness, divide the land among their children, and make them marquis.
Everyone of these disciples was happy to realize their wish. The emperor used this method to show kindness, but in fact he divided the territories of the princes and kings, without reducing their fiefdoms, but weakened their power.
So, the emperor followed his plan.
The master's father Yan also advised the emperor: Maoling has just established a county. We can move all the powerful and powerful families in the world and those who cause trouble to Maoling. The capital will be enriched inside and the cunning people will be eliminated outside. This is called eliminating the harm without killing.
The emperor obeyed his advice again.
For honoring Wei Zifu as the queen and for exposing the secrets of King Liu Dingguo of Yan, Zhufu Yan had meritorious service.
The ministers were all afraid of Zhufu Yan's mouth, and the sum of bribes and gifts to him amounted to thousands of gold.
Someone advised the master Yan and said: You are too outrageous.
Zhu Fuyan said: It has been more than forty years since I studied abroad in Shufa. My ambitions have not been realized. My parents do not regard me as their son. My brothers refuse to take me in. Guests have abandoned me. I have been poor for a long time.
Moreover, if a man cannot eat according to the Five Cauldrons while he is still alive, then he will be punished by being cooked in the Five Cauldrons when he dies.
I have reached the end of the day and the journey is far away, so I have to act in the opposite direction and act violently.
The master's father, Yan Sheng, said that the land in Shuofang was fertile and fertile, and the Yellow River was a danger outside. Meng Tian built a city here to expel the Xiongnu, and introspected the manpower and material resources for transshipment and guarding water transportation. This was the basis for expanding China's land and wiping out the Xiongnu.
After the emperor read his suggestion, he handed it over to the ministers for discussion. Everyone said it was unfavorable.
Gongsun Hong said: During the Qin Dynasty, 300,000 people were mobilized to build the city north of the Yellow River, but it was not completed and was soon abandoned.
Zhufu Yansheng thought it was beneficial, but the emperor actually adopted Zhufu Yan's strategy and established Shuofang County.
In the second year of Yuanshuo, the master's father Yan told the emperor about Qi King Liu Cijing's promiscuous and eccentric behavior in the palace, and the emperor appointed him as the prime minister of Qi.
The master's father came to the state of Qi, summoned his brothers and guests, distributed five hundred gold to them, and scolded them: "When I was poor at first, my brothers did not give me food and clothing, and my guests did not let me in. Now that I have made a formal appearance, some of the kings have gone thousands of miles away to welcome me."
I have severed all relations with you. Please do not enter my master's father's house again!
So he sent someone to touch King Qi with the adultery between King Qi and his sister. King Qi thought that he could not escape the blame after all, and was afraid of being sentenced to death like King Yan Liu Dingguo, so he committed suicide.
The official in charge reported the matter to the emperor.
When Zhufu Yan first became a commoner, he traveled to Yan and Zhao. When he became a high official, he exposed the secrets of King Yan.
The King of Zhao was afraid that he would become a scourge to the State of Zhao, and wanted to write to the emperor to tell his secrets, because his father was buried in the court and he did not dare to expose it.
When he became the Prime Minister and walked out of Hangu Pass, the King of Zhao sent a letter to accuse his father Yan of accepting bribes from the princes. Therefore, many of the princes' sons were made princes for this reason.
When the King of Qi committed suicide, the emperor was furious when he heard about it. He thought that the master father Yan had threatened his king to commit suicide, so he handed it over to the officials for interrogation.
Zhu Fuyan admitted to accepting bribes from the princes, but actually did not threaten the King of Qi to commit suicide.
The emperor did not want to kill Zhufu Yan. At this time, Gongsun Hong, the imperial censor, said to the emperor: The King of Qi committed suicide and had no descendants. The feudal state was abolished and turned into a county and returned to the imperial court. Zhufu Yan is the chief culprit in this matter. Your Majesty will not be able to explain it to the people of the world unless he kills Zhufu Yan.
So the emperor killed everyone in the father's family.
When the master's father Yan was being favored by dignitaries, there were thousands of guests. When he was exterminated and died, no one collected his body. Only Kongche, a man from Mixian County, collected his body and buried him.
The emperor later heard about this and thought that Kong Che was an elder.
Tai Shigong said: Although Gongsun Hong's moral behavior is beautiful, it is also because he encountered a good opportunity.
It has been more than eighty years since the founding of the Han Dynasty. The emperor was advocating Confucianism and recruiting talents with outstanding talents to develop Confucianism and Mohism. Gongsun Hong was the selected person.
Master Fu Yan was in an important position, and all the high-ranking officials in the court praised him. But when his reputation was ruined and he was killed, the scholars were all vying to talk about his bad qualities. How sad!
The Empress Dowager Wang Zhengjun issued an edict to the Grand Situ Ma Palace and the Grand Sikong Zhenfeng: I heard that the way to govern a country is to first make the people rich; the key to making the people rich is frugality.
"The Classic of Filial Piety" says: There is nothing better than using rituals to ensure peace for the emperor and to govern the people. Ritual, as luxurious as it is, would rather be frugal.
In the past, Guan Zhong was the prime minister of Duke Huan of Qi, who made Duke Huan of Qi dominate the princes, had nine princes, and made great achievements in rectifying the world. However, Zhongni said that he was ungrateful because he was extravagant and compared with the king.
Xia Yu lived in a small house and wore poor clothes. Later generations of saints did not follow his practices.
From this it can be said that when the country is politically prosperous, the king's virtues are not higher than frugality.
Educate the common people with the virtue of frugality, then the order of superiority and inferiority will be formed, the flesh-and-blood ties between parents and brothers will become closer, and the sources of disputes and lawsuits will disappear.
This is the fundamental reason why the family can provide enough people and the country can be cured without punishment. How can we not work hard to practice it!
The three princes are the commander-in-chief of hundreds of officials and the role model for all people.
There is no vertical sign but a curved shadow.
Didn’t Confucius once say: If you lead us on the right path, who dares not to follow the right path?  Select talented people and educate people with poor abilities, then people can be encouraged.
Since the prosperity of the Han Dynasty, the prime ministers who are the emperor's loyal ministers have personally practiced frugality, despised money, and valued morality. There is no one like the former prime minister Gongsun Hong, the Marquis of Pingjin.
Although he held the high official position of prime minister, he was covered with a cloth quilt and ate rough meals, with only one meat dish at each meal.
But for old friends and guests he likes, he allocates part of his salary to provide them, and he has no remaining money.
He is indeed able to exercise self-restraint on the inside, while acting in accordance with the law on the outside.
Ji An questioned him, and these things became known to the emperor. It can be said that this is lower than the regulations, but it can be implemented.
If you are virtuous, do it; otherwise, don't do it. This is different from someone who is extravagant secretly but pretends to be frugal on the outside in order to gain fame.
He asked to retire and go home on the grounds of illness. Emperor Wu of the Han Dynasty immediately issued an order: Reward those who have meritorious service, praise those who are virtuous, like good people and hate bad people. This is what you should know.
I hope you will worry less, take care of your spirit, and then use medical-assisted treatment.
Granted him holidays, allowed him to be cured, and rewarded him with cattle, wine, and all kinds of cloth.
After a few months, Gongsun Hong recovered from his illness and went to court.
In the second year of Yuanshou, he finally died in the official position of prime minister.
No one knows the ministers better than the king. This is an example.
Gongsun Hong's son Gongsun Du inherited his father's title and later became the prefect of Shanyang. He lost the title of marquis for breaking the law.
The purpose of commending moral righteousness is to guide the people of the times and encourage and educate them. This is the system of the Holy King and cannot be changed.
The direct descendants of Gongsun Hong will be given the title of Marquis of Guannei and three hundred households in the city. They will be sent to the capital by bus and their names will be reported to the Minister. I will be present to confer the title in person.
