Queen Xiaoyuan is Wang Mang's aunt.
Wang Mang claimed to be a descendant of the Yellow Emperor. In his autobiography of his lineage, "Ziben", he said: The Yellow Emperor's surname was Yao, and his eighth-generation grandson was Yu Shun.
Shun rose from the bend of Ma River and took Yan as his surname.
At the time of King Wu of Zhou Dynasty, Yan Man, a descendant of Shun, was granted the title of Lord Hu in Chen. He was passed down to the thirteenth generation and gave birth to Chen Wan.
Chen Wan, whose courtesy name was Jingzhong, fled to the State of Qi. Duke Huan of Qi worshiped him as his minister, and his surname was Tian.
In the eleventh generation, Tian He took control of the Qi State, and passed on for two more generations to become king. When it was passed to Qi King Tian Jian, the Qi State was destroyed by the Qin State.
Xiang Yu raised an army and made Tian An, the grandson of King Tian Jian of Qi, the King of Jibei.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, Tian An lost his feudal state. The people of Qi called him "Wang Family" and took Wang as their surname.
During the reigns of Emperors Wen and Jing, Wang An's grandson Wang Sui, also named Boji, lived in Shupingling. Wang Sui gave birth to Wang He, also named Wengru.
Weng Ru was Emperor Wu's embroidered censor. He arrested the associates of the bandit Jian Lu and others in Wei County, as well as the cowardly and stagnant officials who should be punished. Weng Ru let them all go without severe punishment.
Other censors, such as Bao Shengzhi, petitioned to kill officials worth two thousand shi. Officials with less than 1,000 shi were left at their disposal. There were also those who were implicated due to their dealings. In severe cases, tens of thousands of people were killed. These are all recorded in the "Biography of Cool Officials".
Weng Ru was dismissed because he was ordered to perform a task that was not in line with the emperor's wishes. He sighed and said: I heard that if you save a thousand people, your descendants will be rewarded. I have rescued more than ten thousand people. Does it mean that the descendants will be prosperous!
After Weng Ru resigned from office, he developed a grudge against the Zhong family of Shu Pingling, so he moved to Suli, Yuancheng Committee, Wei County, and became the third elder. The people of Wei County were very grateful to him.
Duke Jiang of Yuancheng said: In the past, during the Spring and Autumn Period, Shalu collapsed. Taishi of the Jin Dynasty performed a divination and said: Yin was strong and Yang was declining, and earth and fire were fighting, so Shalu collapsed.
Six hundred and forty-five years later, a virtuous woman will appear.
It was probably the Qitian clan. Now Wang Wengru happened to move to this place, and the time is consistent with the divination.
To the east of Yuancheng are the ruins of Wulu, which is the former site of Shalu.
Eighty years later, the Wang family will have a noble daughter who will flourish in the world.
Wang Wengru gave birth to Wang Jin, named Zhijun. When he was young, he studied law in Chang'an and became a court official. In the third year of Benshi, she gave birth to her daughter Zhengjun, who was also the Queen of Yuan Dynasty.
Wang Jin had great ambitions, indulged in wine and sex, and took many concubines. He had four daughters and eight sons in total: the eldest daughter Junxia, ​​the second daughter was the empress of the Yuan Dynasty, the third daughter Junli, and the younger daughter Jundi; Only Wang Feng, Wang Chong and Yuan Hou Zhengjun were born from the same mother.
Their mother is the head wife, the daughter of Li family in Wei County.
Later, he was divorced due to jealousy and remarried to Hanoi Goubin's wife.
At first, when Mrs. Li was pregnant with Zhengjun, she dreamed of the moon falling into her belly.
When Zhengjun grows up, he will be gentle and abide by women's conduct.
I was once betrothed to someone, but before I got married, the other person died.
Later, King Shuhu married Zhengjun as his concubine, but before Zhengjun entered the palace, King Shuping also passed away.
Wang Jin felt strange and asked a magician to see Mr. Zheng. He said it was extremely valuable.
Wang Jinxin also thought that this was the case, so he taught his daughter to read and play the piano.
In the year of Wufeng, Lord Xianzheng entered the palace. She was already eighteen years old at that time and was a family member in Yeting.
More than a year later, Sima Liangdi, the crown prince's favorite, fell ill. When she was about to die, she said to the prince: My death was not due to God's will, but because your concubines killed me by practicing blessings and curses.
The prince took pity on her and thought so.
After Sima Liangdi died, the prince fell ill with grief and became depressed. He vented his anger on all the concubines, and no one could get his summons.
After meeting for a while, Emperor Xiaoxuan heard that the prince hated all the concubines, so he planned to follow his wishes and let the queen choose the family members in the harem who could make the prince happy, and Zhengjun was among them.
When the prince came to pay homage, the queen called out Zheng Jun and five other people, and secretly sent Chang Yu beside her to ask the prince which one he liked.
The prince had no interest in making five people at first, but he couldn't go against the queen's kindness, so he reluctantly replied: "One of them is okay."
At that time, Masahiro was sitting near the prince and was wearing a red-edged loose coat alone. Changyu thought that the prince was talking about her.
The queen sent her attendants Du Fu and Ye Tingling Zhuoxian to send the prince into the prince's womb. He was summoned by the prince in the Bing Palace and was lucky enough to become pregnant.
It turned out that there were more than a dozen concubines in the prince's harem, and some of them had been concubines for seven or eight years, but none of them gave birth. However, when the princess got the concubine, she got pregnant once.
In the third year of Ganlu's reign, Emperor Cheng was born in the Jiaguan Painting Hall, and he was the eldest grandson of the current generation.
Emperor Xuan liked this grandson very much and named him Liu Yuan, also known as Taisun, and often took him with him.
Three years later, Emperor Xuan died and the prince ascended the throne, becoming Emperor Xiaoyuan.
The grandson was registered as the prince, the prince's mother, the princess, was named Jieyu, and Wang Jieyu's father, Wang Jin, was named Marquis of Yangping.
Three days later, Wang Jieyu was appointed queen, Wang Jin was given the special throne, and Wang Jin's younger brother Wang Hong became the Changle Guardsman.
In the second year of Yongguang's reign, Wang Jin died and Mi was given the title of Marquis of Qing.
The eldest son Wang Feng inherited the title of Marquis and was appointed as a Weiwei Shizhong. Since the queen gave birth to her son, she has rarely been summoned by Emperor Yuan.
When the prince grew up, he was generous, understanding, respectful and prudent. These are all recorded in the "Chronicle of the Emperor".
Later, the prince was fond of drinking and feasting for fun. Emperor Yuan thought he had no talent.
Fu Zhaoyi was favored by the emperor and gave birth to King Dingtao Gong.
King Gong was versatile, and Emperor Yuan liked him very much. He let him sit next to him when he ate, and let him ride in the same chariot with him when traveling. He often planned to abolish the prince and establish a king in his place.
At that time, Wang Feng was an official in the court and was worried about this matter together with the queen and the prince. Fortunately, Shi Dan, the servant, supported the prince. This incident was recorded in Shi Dan's original biography.
Emperor Yuan also felt that the queen was always cautious, and the prince was highly valued by the late emperor, so he did not abolish the prince.
After the death of Emperor Yuan, the prince ascended the throne and became Emperor Xiaocheng.
The queen was honored as the empress dowager, Wang Feng was appointed as the great general of Sima to lead the secretarial affairs, and five thousand households were granted the title of fief.
The prosperity of the Wang family began with Wang Feng.
He also granted the title of Marquis of Ancheng to the Queen Mother's younger half-brother Wang Chong, who was granted the title of Marquis of Ancheng, with a household of 10,000 households.
Wang Feng's concubine Wang Tan and others were given the title of Marquis of Guannei and were rewarded with food and towns.
This summer, the sky was filled with yellow fog all day long.
Emperor Cheng asked the doctor Yang Xing, Dr. Si Sheng and others to advise him. Their answers were that it was due to excessive Yin Qi, which infringed Yang Qi.
Emperor Gaozu made an oath at the time that ministers who were not meritorious could not be granted the title of marquis, but now the Queen Mother's younger brothers were granted the title of marquis without any merit, which violated the agreement of Emperor Gaozu. This situation had never happened to his relatives, so God showed a strange phenomenon for them.
Everyone who advises me thinks so.
Wang Feng was frightened and wrote a letter to resign, saying: Your Majesty succeeded to the throne and was devoted to mourning, so he ordered me to take charge of the affairs of the Secretariat on his behalf. I cannot show off the virtues of the Holy King to the superiors, and I cannot contribute to politics to the subordinates.
Now a disaster has occurred in the world, and the responsibility lies with me. I should be killed as a way of thanking everyone in the world.
Now that your period of filial piety has expired, Your Majesty understands the great righteousness and should personally handle the state affairs in order to obey God's will.
So he asked to retire and return to his hometown.
Emperor Cheng replied: I inherited the late emperor's work, but I am not experienced in the world and do not understand the principles. Therefore, the yin and yang are confused, the moon has no light, and the yellow fog spreads all over the world.
The blame lies with me. Now the general has taken the blame on himself and plans to hand it over to the minister, return the general's seal and ribbon, and remove the chief minister from his official position. This clearly shows that I have no virtue.
I entrust the affairs to the general because I really hope to achieve something and promote the merits of our ancestors.
General, please calm down and help me where I can't, and don't be suspicious.
Five years later, the officials dispersed and An Chenghou Wang Chong died, and Mi was named Gonghou.
Wang Chong had a son named Wang Fengshi who inherited the throne. The Queen Mother was very sad.
In the next year, that is, the second year of Heping, Emperor Cheng made all his uncles marquises. Wang Tan was the Marquis of Ping'a, Wang Shang was the Marquis of Chengdu, Wang Li was the Marquis of Hongyang, Wang Gen was the Marquis of Quyang, and Wang Fengshi was the Marquis of Gaoping.
Five people were granted the title of Marquis on the same day, so people called them the Five Marquises.
Among the Queen Mother's half-brothers, only Wang Man died early, and the rest were granted the title of marquis.
The Queen Mother's mother, Li Qin, was the wife of the Gou family. She gave birth to a son named Gou Shen. Li Qin was a widow at home.
When Wang Jin, the Marquis of Qing, was still alive, the Queen Mother ordered Wang Jin to take back Li Qin.
The Queen Mother felt pity for Gou Shen and planned to reward him according to Tian Pan's treatment.
Emperor Cheng said: In the past, it was incorrect to grant rewards to the Tian family.
So Gou Shen was made the captain of Shui Heng.
The children of the Wang family were all officials of the rank and file, occupying various key departments throughout the imperial court.
General Wang Feng held great power, and Emperor Cheng was humble in everything and did not dare to have his own way.
The ministers on the left and right often recommended Liu Xin, the youngest son of Guanglu doctor Liu Xiang, saying that he was knowledgeable and talented.
Emperor Cheng summoned Liu Xin and asked him to read poems. He was very happy and planned to make him a regular attendant and ordered someone to fetch him clothes and hats.
When it was time to pay homage, everyone on the left and right said: I wonder if the general agrees.
Emperor Cheng said: Do you still need to ask the general for such a small matter?
Kowtow to the left and right and insist on doing so.
Emperor Cheng told Wang Feng. Wang Feng thought it was impossible, so he had to give up.
Emperor Cheng was afraid of Wang Feng to such an extent.
Emperor Cheng had been in power for several years, had no heirs, and was often unwell.
King Dingtao came to see him. The Queen Mother and Emperor Cheng followed the late emperor's wishes and treated him favorably. They rewarded him ten times as much as other princes and kings. They did not take to heart the past festivals that almost destroyed the prince.
After the king came to see him, Emperor Cheng kept him in the capital and refused to let him return to his country.
Emperor Cheng said to King Gong: I still have no son, and human life is impermanent and cannot be denied. Once something changes, we will no longer be able to meet each other.
Just stay in the capital and stay with me!
Later, Emperor Cheng's illness worsened, so the king lived in the palace and served Emperor Cheng day and night. Emperor Cheng was very close to him and relied on him.
General Wang Feng believed that it was not good for him to stay in the capital. When a solar eclipse happened, Gong Feng said: A solar eclipse is a phenomenon caused by excessive Yin energy, and it is an unusual disaster.
Although King Dingtao is a close relative, he should still guard the feudal state according to etiquette.
Now I am staying in the capital to serve His Majesty. I have violated the right path and broken the rules. Therefore, God has shown a vision to warn me.
King Dingtao should be allowed to return to the feudal state.
Emperor Cheng had no choice but to agree.
When King Gong was leaving, Emperor Cheng and he faced each other and said goodbye in tears.
Wang Zhang of Jingzhao Yin was upright by nature and dared to speak out. He thought it was wrong for Wang Feng to suggest that the Communist king should return to his country, so he wrote a secret memorial to Emperor Cheng, explaining who was responsible for the solar eclipse.
Emperor Cheng summoned Wang Zhang and asked about this matter. Wang Zhang replied: God is holy and wise. It protects good and punishes evil. It is verified by auspicious and disasterous celestial phenomena.
Now that your majesty has no heirs, he is close to King Dingtao in order to continue the ancestral temple, focus on the country and the country, obey the will of God on the one hand, and appease the people on the other.
This is a good and moral thing. There should be auspicious signs coming. How could it lead to disaster?
The occurrence of disasters is due to the dictatorship of ministers.
Now I heard that General Jingcha blamed King Dingtao for the solar eclipse and suggested that he should be sent back to the feudal state. This was because he wanted to isolate His Majesty and allow him to rule exclusively to satisfy his own desires. This is not the behavior of a loyal minister.
Moreover, the occurrence of the solar eclipse was due to the sin of Yin Qi invading Yang Qi and the ministers' monopolization of the monarch's power. Now, Wang Feng decides all national affairs, big or small, and the emperor cannot do anything. Wang Feng does not reflect on his mistakes, but blames good people and puts it on King Dingtao.
Moreover, Wang Feng's false accusation of others and his disloyalty was not just a matter of this kind.
The former prime minister, Wang Shang, the Marquis of Lechang, was a relative of the late emperor. He was virtuous and prestigious. He was ranked among generals and prime ministers. He was an important minister of the country. He adhered to justice and refused to give up his integrity to cater to Wang Feng. He was finally dismissed by Wang Feng because of internal affairs in his boudoir. He died of fear. The people pitied him.
Moreover, Wang Feng knew that his concubine's sister, Zhang Meiren, was once married and could no longer serve the emperor according to etiquette. However, Wang Feng used the excuse that she was suitable for childbearing and sent her to the harem in order to benefit his wife's sister.
I heard that Zhang Meiren was not pregnant and had to give birth outside the home.
Barbarians such as the Qiang and Hu even killed their first sons to ensure the purity of their bloodline, not to mention how could the emperor get close to a married woman!
These three items are all important matters. Your Majesty can see them yourself, and from this you can completely infer the rest of the matters, as well as those things that cannot be seen.
People like Wang Feng cannot be allowed to rule for a long time. He should be allowed to retreat to the palace and other loyal and wise ministers should be chosen to replace him.
Since Wang Feng suggested deposing Wang Shang and later sent King Dingtao back to the feudal state, Emperor Cheng was filled with anger and dissatisfaction.
After listening to Wang Zhang's words, Emperor Cheng realized something, so he adopted Wang Zhang's opinion and said to Wang Zhang: Without Jing Zhaoyin's outspoken advice, I would not have heard of such a national plan!
Besides, only wise people can understand wise people. Try to find me a few people who can assist in government affairs.
So Wang Zhang wrote a secret memorial, recommending Prince Xiao of Zhongshan's uncle Langye Prefecture Feng Yewang. He was the second minister during the late emperor's reign. He was loyal, upright, and very resourceful.
As the uncle of King Xiao, King Feng Ye served as a foreign official and was recalled because of his virtue. This shows that a wise monarch likes to appoint wise men.
When Emperor Cheng was the crown prince, he heard many times that King Feng Ye was a famous minister of the late emperor, and his reputation was far higher than that of Wang Feng, so he planned to let him replace Wang Feng.
At the beginning, every time Wang Zhang was summoned, Emperor Cheng would retreat.
At that time, the Queen Mother's cousin Wang Yin, the son of Changle Guardsman Wang Hong, eavesdropped on their conversation, knew everything about Wang Zhang's plan, and told Wang Feng.
After Wang Feng heard this, he complained of illness and returned to his mansion. Shangshu asked to resign and return to his hometown. He said goodbye to the emperor: "I am stupid and stupid, but I was able to make seven of my relatives and brothers a prince. My family received the emperor's favor and received countless rewards."
I have been assisting the government for seven years, and the emperor has entrusted me with important responsibilities. I listen to people's suggestions and often appoint wise men and women.
Nothing was done well, which led to disharmony between yin and yang and frequent disasters. The root cause was that I had no merit in my tenure. This was the first reason why I should retire.
The records in the "Five Classics" and what the scribes said all attribute the blame for the solar eclipse to the improper appointment of ministers. The "Book of Changes" says that I broke my right arm. This is the second reason why I should retire.
Since the Heping period, I have been ill for many years and have been recuperating at home many times. I have ignored government affairs and only received rank and salary. This is the third reason why I should retire.
Your Majesty cannot bear to depose me because of the Empress Dowager. I also know that I should be exiled to a distant place, but I also think in my heart that the holy grace my family has received is immeasurable. I should be diligent in royal affairs and not hesitate to break my body. I should not have the thought of leaving the emperor just because I am useless. Over the past year or so, my illness has indeed gotten worse and worse day by day, and my wish has been difficult to realize. I just want to resign and go back to my hometown to recuperate on my own. I hope that I can rely on His Majesty's gods to survive and recover within a month and see Your Majesty again. Otherwise, I will be buried underground.
I have no talent, but I am favored by His Majesty, and everyone in the world knows that I have received great favor from the Emperor. When I resigned and returned to my hometown due to illness, everyone in the world knows that I was pitied and favored by Your Majesty, and the Emperor's favor is so great.
My return to my hometown will be of great benefit to the country and will not cause much discussion.
Please have mercy on me, Your Majesty!
The words were very sad, and after hearing about it, the Queen Mother cried for him and couldn't eat.
Emperor Cheng had relied on Wang Feng since he was a child. He couldn't bear to remove him, so he replied to Wang Feng: I am not good at managing government. There are many flaws in the management of state affairs. Therefore, God has repeatedly caused disasters, which are all my responsibility.
The general took all the blame on himself and planned to resign and return home. So who will I rely on?
Isn’t it said in the Book of Books? Don't go away and put me in trouble. You must cheer up, calm down, and restrain yourself. I hope that the disease can be cured immediately, and I will be satisfied.
So Wang Feng rose up and took charge again.
Emperor Cheng sent a minister to impeach Wang Zhang for his crime, saying: Knowing that King Feng Ye had previously served in the capital as the uncle of King Xiao, he recommended him privately in order to make the ministers in the court attach themselves to the princes and kings; and he also knew that Zhang Meiren was serving the emperor, but he led Qiang and Hu people to kill the first child to pure blood. This is not what a minister should say.
Then Wang Zhang was handed over to the judge for trial.
The Tingwei accused Wang Zhang of treason, thinking that he wanted to cut off the emperor's heirs by comparing the emperor to the Yi Di; he betrayed the emperor and secretly planned to be King Dingtao.
Wang Zhang died in prison, and his wife and children were exiled to Hepu.
From then on, when the ministers saw Wang Feng, they did not dare to look directly at him, and the local officials in the prefecture and state were all his cronies.
He also named Wang Yin, the imperial servant in the palace, as the official censor, ranking among the three nobles.
The five younger brothers who were granted the title of marquis, competed to spend extravagantly, bribed and gave away treasures in an endless stream. Each family had dozens of concubines in the back courtyard, and there were hundreds or even thousands of slaves. They rang bells and chimes, beautiful women danced, watched acrobatics, and sensual dogs and horses;
The common people sang songs for them and said: When the five princes first became prosperous, Quyanghou was the strongest. He destroyed Gaodu and built a palace, and then spread to the Waidu area. The earth and mountains gradually became taller, like the emperor's White Tiger Palace.
They are so extravagant and arrogant.
But these people are well versed in the ways of the world, like to cultivate wise men, and spend all their money in this area to show that they are not vulgar.
Wang Feng assisted the government for a total of eleven years.
In the autumn of the third year of Yangshuo, Wang Feng was seriously ill. Emperor Cheng personally visited his home many times. He held his hand and cried and said: The general is seriously ill. If he fails, let Ping'ahou Wang Tan take his place.
Wang Feng kowtowed and said with tears: Although Wang Tan and others are my closest relatives, they advocate extravagance and cannot set an example for the people of the world. They are not as cautious as Wang Yin, the imperial censor. I am willing to die to recommend them.
When Wang Feng died, Shangshu thanked the emperor, but insisted on recommending Wang Yin to replace him, saying that Wang Tan and other five people must not be reused.
Emperor Cheng agreed.
At first, Wang Tan was arrogant and refused to serve Wang Feng, but Wang Yin respected Wang Feng and was as humble as a son to his father, so Wang Feng recommended him.
After Wang Feng's death, Emperor Cheng went to pay his respects in person and presented it to the Wang family as a light chariot and warrior. During the funeral, soldiers lined up from Chang'an to Weiling, and Mi was given the title of Marquis Jingcheng.
Wang Feng's son Wang Xiang inherited the title of Marquis and served as a Weiwei.
Wang Yin, the imperial censor, finally replaced Wang Feng as the Great Sima Cavalry General, and Ping'ahou Wang Tan was given the special rank to command the troops defending the city.
Gu Yong persuaded Wang Tan not to accept the position of guarding the city gate, and he became dissatisfied with Wang Yin from then on. This incident is recorded in "Gu Yong's Biography".
As a cousin, Wang Yin took charge of political affairs beyond his close relatives. He was cautious and managed the political affairs himself. More than a year later, Emperor Cheng went to Shao and said: General Wang Yin of Chariots and Cavalry is serving in the palace. He is loyal and pure, and works hard for state affairs. He was originally a censor. As a foreign relative, he should be in charge of the army. He also became a general. I am very sorry that he did not get the reward from the prime minister!
Wang Yin was granted the title of Marquis of Anyang, and the enfeoffment was the same as that of the Five Marquises, with a total of 3,000 households.
At first, Prince Shang, the Marquis of Chengdu, fell ill and wanted to escape the summer heat, so he asked the emperor to borrow the Mingguang Palace. Later, he passed through the capital Chang'an, led the Lishui River into the big pond at home for boating, erected umbrellas decorated with green feathers, set up curtains, and asked the boatmen to sing Yue songs.
Emperor Cheng visited Wang Shang's residence and saw him passing through Chang'an City to divert water. He was very angry, but he was jealous and did not speak out.
Later, when I was traveling incognito, I passed by Quyanghou's house and saw that the earth-mountain terrace in the garden was similar to the White Tiger Palace.
The emperor was furious and blamed the chariot general Wang Yin.
Brothers Wang Shang and Wang Gen planned to tattoo their faces and cut off their noses to apologize to the Queen Mother.
Emperor Cheng became even more angry after hearing this, and sent his minister to question Sili Xiaowei and Jing Zhaoyin. Knowing full well that the Marquis of Chengdu, Wang Shang, crossed the capital without authorization and introduced Lishui River, the Marquis of Quyang was arrogant and extravagant, and the expenses of the mansion were arrogant to the emperor. The stone steps were painted red, and the doors were engraved with cyan patterns.
The two kowtowed and went home to reflect.
He also gave a document to General Wang Yin of Chariots and Cavalry, saying: There is no one in the family who is willing to be defeated, but he wants to be tattooed and tortured himself, and to suffer this humiliation in front of the Queen Mother, hurting the heart of a loving mother, and causing trouble to the country!
The cousin's family is powerful, but the emperor's power has been getting weaker and weaker for a long time, and now he wants to use punishment.
You gather those princes together and wait for Shao's fate at your house.
On this day, Shao ordered Shangshu to report the old story of the execution of General Bo Zhao during the reign of Emperor Wen.
The chariot general Wang Yin sat on a straw mat and begged for punishment. Wang Shang, Wang Li, and Wang Gen all came carrying axes and begged for punishment.
Emperor Cheng couldn't bear to kill them, so he gave up.
After some time, Ping'ahou Wang Tan died, Mi was named Anhou, and his son Wang Ren inherited the title.
The Queen Mother felt sorry that her younger brother Wang Man had died early and was not able to become a marquis. Wang Man's widowed wife Qu also served her. Her son Wang Mang lost his father when he was young and could not be compared with others, so she often mentioned him in front of Emperor Cheng.
Prince Tan of Ping'a, Prince Shang of Chengdu and some officials all praised Wang Mang.
Later, Emperor Cheng issued an edict to postulate Wang Man as the Marquis of Ai of Xindu, and his son Wang Mang inherited the title as Marquis of Xindu.
Later, Chunyu Chang, the son of the Queen Mother's sister, was granted the title of Marquis of Dingling.
Among the relatives of the Wang family, there are a total of ten people who have been granted the title of marquis.
Emperor Cheng regretted that he had dismissed Ping'a Hou Wang Tan and died without being able to assist the government, so he gave the title of Chengdu Hou Wang Shang Tejin, allowing him to command the troops defending the city, set up a shogunate, and recommend officials like a general.
Du Ye persuaded the cavalry general Wang Yin to get close to Wang Shang. This incident was recorded in the "Biography of Du Ye".
The Wang family's official ranks were getting higher and higher, but Wang Yin was the only one who paid attention to the law, spoke out and persuaded many times, and had the character of a loyal minister. He assisted in political affairs for eight years and passed away.
Emperor Cheng personally went to pay his respects as he did to Wang Feng, presented him with honors and favors, and gave him the title of Jinghou.
Wang Yin's son Wang Shun succeeded to the throne and became the imperial servant.
Te Jin, the Marquis of Chengdu, Wang Shang, replaced Wang Yin as General Sima Wei, and gave Hong Yang Hou Wang the position of Te Jin, allowing him to command the troops defending the city.
Wang Shang assisted the government for four years when he became seriously ill and asked to resign. Emperor Cheng took pity on him and made him a general. He also rewarded 2,000 households and 1 million yuan.
When Wang Shang passed away, Emperor Cheng personally paid his respects according to the old system of generals and bestowed him with honors and favors. Mi was given the title Marquis of Jingcheng. Wang Shang's son Wang Kuang succeeded him as Marquis.
The Marquis of Hongyang should have joined the court to assist the government in order, but he committed a crime and gave up. This incident is recorded in "Sun Baozhuan".
Emperor Cheng gave up Wang Li and appointed Guangluxun Quyanghou Wanggen as the Grand Sima Hussar General. More than a year later, 1,700 households were added as fiefs.
The Marquis of Gaoping had neither talent nor fame. He died that year and was given the title of Marquis of Dai. His son Wang Maizhi succeeded him as Marquis of Dai.
In the first year of Suihe, Emperor Cheng had ascended the throne for more than 20 years and still had no heirs. King Dingtao Gong had died and his son succeeded to the throne.
Queen Dingtao, the grandmother of King Dingtao, bribed General Wang Gen with generous gifts in the hope of making King Dingtao the prince. Wang Gen spoke on her behalf. Emperor Cheng also planned to make King Dingtao the prince, so he summoned him to the capital to be crowned prince.
At this time, Wang Gen had been assisting the government for five years. He asked to resign and return to his hometown. Emperor Cheng added 5,000 households to Wang Gen's fiefdom, rewarded him with a carriage, four horses, and five hundred catties of gold. He dismissed his official position and returned to his mansion.
Previously, Chun Yuchang, the Marquis of Dingling, was able to make suggestions as a relative and served as a guard official, assisting in government affairs.
In this year, Wang Mang, the Marquis of Xindu, reported Chun Yuchang's past crimes and had colluded with Hongyang Marquis Wang Li. Chun Yuchang was imprisoned and died, and Wang Li returned to his fiefdom. This incident was recorded in "The Biography of Chunyu Chang".
Therefore, Wang Gen, the Marquis of Quyang, recommended Wang Mang to replace him. Emperor Cheng also believed that Wang Mang was loyal and upright, so he promoted Wang Mang from the position of Guanglu Guanglu to the rank of Chief Sima.
More than a year later, Emperor Cheng died and Emperor Ai ascended the throne.
The Queen Mother issued an edict asking Wang Mang to resign and go home, but she avoided the matter because he was a relative of the emperor.
Emperor Ai began to treat Wang Mang preferentially but refused to agree.
Wang Mang wrote a letter insisting on resigning.
Emperor Ai came to Xia Shao and said: During his tenure, Wang Gen, Marquis of Quyang, had some strategies to govern the country and secure it.
Anyanghou Wang Shun, the servant in charge of the imperial court, went to take care of the prince's family and enlightened me. I am loyal and have no second heart, but have old kindness.
Wang Mang, the Marquis of Xindu, has worked hard for state affairs and upheld justice, and he hopes to assist me in governing the country. I am very sorry that the Empress Dowager has sent him to retire and go home.
Two thousand households of Wang Gen were granted fiefs, five hundred households of Wang Shun, and three hundred and fifty households of Wang Mang.
Wang Mang was given the position of special advancement, and Wang Mang entered the palace to see him on the first day of the lunar month.
He also asked Wang Li, the Marquis of Hongyang, to return to the capital.
Emperor Ai was very young, but he was unhappy when he heard that the Wang family was arrogant and prosperous. Because he had just ascended the throne, he gave them preferential treatment.
A month later, Lieutenant of Sili Jieguang reported: The family of Quyanghou Wanggen is powerful and distinguished. Three generations have been in power, five generals have controlled political affairs, and the people of the world have a tendency to flatter and please. Wang Gen was greedy and evil, amassed a lot of money, and acted recklessly. He overhauled the palace, built a rockery in the palace, and set up two markets. The steps in front of the palace were painted red, and the doors were engraved with cyan patterns. When he went hunting, he ordered his servants to wear bell armor, hold bows and arrows, and line up like infantry; Wang Gen was evil in his heart and planned to control the government. He elected Zhang Ye, a close official, to serve as minister, deceived the emperor, blocked the opinions of his ministers, blocked the way to achieve the king's career internally, made friends with princes and kings externally, was arrogant and extravagant, and exceeded his status. Destroy the system. Wang Gen was a close relative of the late emperor and an important minister of the country. After the late emperor's death, Wang Gen did not feel sad and missed the late emperor. Before the late emperor's mausoleum was built, he openly married the former Yeting kabuki performer Wang Feijun and others. They held banquets and indulged in singing and dancing, abandoning the late emperor's deep kindness to him and violating the etiquette and justice that a minister should abide by.
Wang Gen's brother's son, the Marquis of Chengdu, Wang Kuang, was fortunate enough to succeed his father as a foreign relative and become the minister of the princes. However, he did not miss repaying the profound favor of the emperor, and also married a nobleman from Yuanting.
Therefore Emperor Ai said: The late emperor treated Wang Gen and Wang Kuang and his son with great kindness, but now they have betrayed their kindness!
Because Wang Gen once helped Emperor Ai become the prince and let him return to the fiefdom.
Wang Kuang was dismissed from his official position and became a commoner, and returned to his hometown.
Those whom Wang Gen and Wang Kuang's father Wang Shang recommended to serve as officials were all dismissed.
Two years later, Empress Dowager Fu and Emperor Ai's mother Ding Ji were honored as Empress Dowager Tai and Empress Dowager respectively.
A minister reported that: Wang Mang, the Marquis of Xindu, who had previously been the Grand Sima, suppressed the proposal of adding a title, which was detrimental to filial piety, and Wang Ren, the Marquis of Ping'a, was harboring relatives of Tsang Zhaoyi. Both of them should be moved back to their fiefdoms.
Many people in the world feel wronged for Wang.
Yang Xuan, the remonstrating official, wrote a secret letter saying: Emperor Xiaocheng took into account the country's great plans, praised your majesty's noble morals and allowed your majesty to inherit the throne. The late emperor's strategy was far-reaching and his kindness was extremely generous.
Thinking of the late Emperor's wishes, didn't he want His Majesty to take his place and provide for the Queen Mother?
The Empress Dowager was seventy years old and had experienced sad changes many times. She ordered her relatives to retreat on their own to avoid the Ding and Fu families.
Everyone who travels will shed tears for this, not to mention His Majesty, if you climb high and look far away, wouldn't you be worthy of the late emperor of Yanling!
Aihu was deeply moved by his words, and made Wang Shang's second son Wang Yi the Marquis of Shengdu.
In the first year of Yuanshou, a solar eclipse occurred.
When the wise and kind-hearted ministers and Confucian scholars stated their political opinions in response to the imperial edict, most of them complained about the new capital, Wang Mang, so Emperor Ai summoned Wang Mang and Ping Ahou Wang Ren to return to the capital to serve the Queen Mother.
Wang Gen, Marquis of Quyang, died and the feudal state was abolished.
In the second year, Emperor Ai died without a son. The Empress Dowager appointed Wang Mang as the Grand Sima, and together with him, he summoned King Zhongshan as Emperor Ai, who became Emperor Ping.
Emperor Ping was only nine years old and fell ill that year, so the Queen Mother came to the court to handle the affairs and entrusted the affairs of the court to Wang Mang.
Wang Li, the Marquis of Hongyang, was Wang Mang's uncle, and Wang Ren, the Marquis of Ping'a, had always been upright. Wang Mang was wary of them, so he ordered his ministers to fabricate charges and petition to have Wang Li and Wang Ren return to their fiefdoms.
Wang Mang deceived the Queen Mother all day long, saying that he was assisting the government to bring peace to the world. The ministers submitted a petition requesting that Wang Mang be honored as Duke Anhan.
Later, Wang Mang sent envoys to force Wang Li and Wang Ren to commit suicide. Wang Limi was given the title of Huanghou, and his son Wang Zhu succeeded him. Wang Renmi was given the title of Rahou, and his son Wang Shu succeeded to the title.
One year was created, which was the third year of Yuanshi.
The next year, Wang Mang hinted to the ministers to ask for his daughter to be appointed queen.
He also requested that Wang Mang be made Prime Minister, and Wang Mang's mother and two sons were named marquises. These events are recorded in the "Biography of Wang Mang".
Externally, Wang Mang controlled the words and deeds of ministers, asking them to praise his merits. Internally, he flattered the Queen Mother's attendants below the imperial level, bribing them with tens of thousands of dollars.
She also reported to the Queen Mother that her sisters Jun Xia should be named Guangenjun, Junli should be named Guanghuijun, and Jun's younger brother should be named Guangshijun. They were all rewarded with food. They praised Wang Mang together in front of the Queen Mother all day long.
Wang Mang also knew that the Queen Mother, as a woman, hated the life of living in the palace for a long time, so he planned to entertain the Queen Mother in exchange for greater power. He asked the Queen Mother to travel around the suburbs of the capital in four seasons to greet orphans, widows and chaste women.
In the spring, they visited the Cocoon Pavilion and led the queen and the wives of the princes to plant mulberry trees and pray for blessings and eliminate disasters by the Ba River; in the summer, they played between Sunsu, E, and Du; in the autumn, they visited Shu Pavilion, looked at Kunming from afar, and gathered at the Huangshan Palace; in the winter, they held banquets and drinks in the Feiyu Pavilion, hunted in Shanglan, climbed to the Changping Pavilion, and visited the scenery along the Jingshui River.
Whenever the Queen Mother passed through a county, she would show great kindness to the people and reward the people with money, silk, cattle and wine. This gradually formed a habit.
The Queen Mother said with a gentle face: When I first entered the Prince's house, I was summoned in the Bing Hall. It has been fifty or sixty years now, and I can still remember the scene at that time.
Wang Mang said, "The prince's palace is nearby. You can go there for fun without any trouble."
Therefore, the Queen Mother visited the Prince's palace and was very happy.
Nong'er, who was beside the Queen Mother, fell ill and lived in a foreign house. Wang Mang went to greet him personally.
Wang Mang went so far as to cater to the Queen Mother's wishes.
Emperor Ping died without heirs, so Wang Mang summoned Liu Ying, the youngest great-great-grandson of Emperor Xuan and the son of Marquis Guangqi, who was only two years old, on the pretext that he would divine the most auspicious divination.
It suggested that the ministers petitioned to establish Liu Ying as a son, and let the Prime Minister Anhan Duke Mang temporarily occupy the position of emperor and handle political affairs, just like the story of Zhou Gong assisting the king.
The Queen Mother believed that this was not allowed, but she could not stop it with her own strength, so Wang Mang became the regent, changed the reign name, and exercised the power of the emperor.
Not long after, Liu Chong, the Marquis of Anzhong of the clan, Zhai Yi, the prefect of Shujun, and others were disgusted with Wang Mang and raised troops one after another to kill him.
When the Queen Mother heard the news, she said: People think the same thing.
Even though I am a woman, I also know that Wang Mang will definitely be worried about his own safety and cannot do this.
Later, Wang Mang used the talisman to establish himself as the true emperor, and first presented those auspicious signs to the Queen Mother, who was shocked.
At the beginning, when Emperor Gaozu of the Han Dynasty entered Xianyang and reached Bashang, Prince Qin Ying surrendered at Zhidao Pavilion and presented Qin Shihuang's national seal.
When the great ancestor executed Xiang Ji and ascended the throne as the emperor, he personally wore this national seal and passed it down from generation to generation, known as the Mochuan national seal. Because Ruzi had not yet ascended the throne, the imperial seal was kept in Changle Palace.
When Wang Mang came to the throne, he wanted to pass on the national seal, but the Queen Mother refused to give it to him.
Wang Mang instructed Anyang Marquis Wang Shun to convey his intention to the Queen Mother.
Wang Shun has always been cautious and thoughtful, and the Queen Mother usually likes to trust him.
Wang Shun paid a visit to the Queen Mother. The Queen Mother knew that he was here to ask for the imperial seal for Wang Mang, so she angrily scolded him and said: Your father and son families have been favored by the Han family and have been rich and powerful for generations. Not only did you not repay the favor, you accepted the task of entrusting the orphans, but you took the opportunity to seize other people's countries. You no longer care about your kindness.
People like this are worse than pigs and dogs. How can there be brothers like you in the world!
Besides, I used the Golden Chamber Talisman to become the new emperor and changed the calendar and the system of clothing, carriages and horses, so I should make my own national seal and pass it on to all generations. Why do I need to come here to get the national seal that is unlucky for the country to perish?
I am an old widow of the Han family. I am about to die. I want to be buried with this Fang Chuanguo Seal, but you will not be able to get it in the end!
The Queen Mother cried while speaking, and all the waiters below the chief minister beside her shed tears.
Wang Shun couldn't restrain his sadness. After a long time, he raised his head and said to the Queen Mother: We people have nothing to say.
Wang Mang must get the imperial seal, can the Queen Mother never give it to him?
When the Queen Mother heard Wang Shun's sincere words, she was afraid that Wang Mang would threaten her, so she took out the imperial seal and threw it on the ground to Wang Shun, saying: I am old and dying, and if you brothers behave like this, the Wang family will be exterminated!
Wang Shun got the imperial seal and presented it to Wang Mang. Wang Mang was so happy that he held a banquet for the Empress Dowager at the terrace of Weiyang Palace and had fun.
Wang Mang also wanted to change the Queen Mother's Han Dynasty title and her seal, but he was afraid that she would not agree. Wang Mang's distant cousin, Wang Jian, wanted to flatter Wang Mang and wrote a letter saying: God abolished the Han Dynasty and established a new house. The Empress Dowager can no longer have the honorary title and should be abolished along with the Han Dynasty to comply with the destiny of heaven.
Wang Mang took a carriage and horse to the East Palace and personally reported the contents of the memorial to the Queen Mother.
The Queen Mother said: This is right!
Wang Mang said: This is an immoral minister, and the crime he committed should be punished with death!
Therefore, the champion Zhang Yong presented a bronze biscuit engraved with fortune-telling. The text on it was "The Empress Dowager shall be the new wife's mother, the Empress Dowager."
Wang Mang then issued an edict: "I showed it to all the ministers, and they all said it's so beautiful!"
The words above were not carved or painted, they were created by nature. I thought that God had appointed me as the emperor by destiny, and also appointed the empress dowager as the new empress dowager. This was consistent with the alternation of the old and new dynasties, and did not treat the Mo family unfairly.
During the reign of Emperor Ai, it was popular among the people to pass on plans and offer wine and food to the Queen Mother of the West. This was a sign that the Queen Mother should become the mother of the country in the change of dynasty.
I obey the destiny, how dare I disobey!
He deliberately chose an auspicious month and period, personally led the ministers, and presented the empress dowager's seal and ribbon to respond to God's will and make it known to the world.
The Queen Mother accepted Wang Mang's suggestion.
Wang Mang killed Wang Jian with poisoned wine and made Zhang Yong a tribute fuzi.
At the beginning, when Wang Mang was the Duke of Anhan, he flattered the Queen Mother and requested that the temple name of Emperor Yuan be Gaozong. After the death of the Queen Mother, he could be assigned to the Temple of Emperor Yuan according to etiquette.
When Wang Mang changed the title of the Queen Mother to Xinshi Wenmu, she severed her relationship with the Han Dynasty, not wanting her to be worthy of the Yuan Emperor.
Emperor Xiaoyuan's dormitory temple was destroyed and a new dormitory temple was built for Empress Dowager Wenmu. The original main hall of Xiaoyuan Temple was specially used as a place for Wenmu to hold banquets. After it was completed, it was named longevity palace.
Because the Queen Mother is still alive, it is not called a temple.
Because the Queen Mother liked to go out for sightseeing, Wang Mang held a banquet in the Longevity Palace and invited the Queen Mother there by car.
After the Queen Mother arrived, she was shocked to see the dilapidated Xiaoyuan Temple. She cried and said: This is the ancestral temple of the Han family. It is blessed by gods and has nothing to do with you. Why did you destroy it?
Besides, if ghosts and gods have no consciousness, why build a temple?
If the ghosts and gods knew it, how could I, as the late emperor's concubine, humiliate the late emperor's temple and display sacrifices for me!
He privately said to the waiters on his left and right: This man has repeatedly disrespected the gods. How can he be blessed for a long time?
This drinking session ended on bad terms.
Since Wang Mang usurped the throne, he knew that the Queen Mother was resentful, so he tried every means to flatter the Queen Mother. However, the Queen Mother became increasingly unhappy.
Wang Mang changed the system of wearing sable among the servants of the Mo family, so that all the servants wore yellow sable. He also changed the dates of Zhengshuo and Fula in the Han family.
The Queen Mother made her subordinates all wear sable. On New Year's Day and the twelfth lunar month of the Han Dynasty, she would sit and drink with the waiters around her to show that she did not forget the Han Dynasty.
When the Queen Mother was eighty-four years old, in February of the fifth year of the founding of the People's Republic of China, Guichou died.
In March Yiyou, he was buried in Weiling together with Emperor Yuan.
Wang Mang issued an edict and asked the doctor Yang Xiong to write a sacrificial text, saying: The essence of Taiyin, the spirit of Shalu, the sky unites with Han, and the matching element is generated.
It shows that she is in harmony with Shalu of Yuancheng.
The essence of Taiyin means that the Queen Mother was born from a dream of the moon.
Ten years after the death of the Queen Mother, Han soldiers killed Wang Mang.
At the beginning, Wang Li, the Marquis of Hongyang, returned to his fiefdom of Nanyang and formed a relationship with the Liu family's children. Wang Li's youngest son, Wang Dan, became the prefect of Zhongshan.
When Emperor Guangwu of Shizu just raised an army, Wang Dan surrendered and he became a general and died in battle.
Shizu took great pity on him and named his son Wang Hong the Marquis of Wuhuan. This title has been passed down to this day.
Situ Peng Ban Biao said: Since the Three Dynasties, the reasons for the demise of princes and monarchs recorded in the "Spring and Autumn" have rarely been caused by favored women.
After the rise of the Han Dynasty, the concubines' families, the Lu family, the Huo family, and the Shangguan family, nearly endangered the country several times.
The rise of Wang Mang was due to the fact that after Xiaoyuan, there were four generations of emperors in the Han Dynasty. Her mother respected the world. She reigned for more than sixty years. Her younger brothers came to power one after another and controlled the government. They granted a total of five generals and ten princes. Finally, Wang Mang, the new prince of the capital, realized his ambition.
The dynasties have changed, but the Queen of the Yuan Dynasty is still loyal and holds the imperial seal in her hand, and does not want to hand it over to Wang Mang. The kindness of a woman is really pitiful!
