◆The biography of Yu Xu, whose courtesy name was Shengqing, was from Wuping in the state of Chen.
My grandfather, Yu Jing, was a county prison officer. He handled cases impartially, was generous, and respected himself and others. Every winter month, the case is reported, and I often shed tears over it.
He once said: In the East China Sea, a gate was built at the Duke's height, and the horses and chariots were made high, thinking that some of their descendants would become high officials. And his son Dingguo finally became prime minister.
I have been in prison for sixty years. Although I am not as good as Yu Gong, maybe it is about the same. My descendants may not become Jiuqing.
Therefore, Yu Xu was given the title "Qing".
Yu Xu was twelve years old and could read Shangshu.
Is an orphan. Take care of your grandmother.
The county elected him as his grandson, and the prime minister admired him very much and wanted him to be an official.
Yu Xu declined and said: "Grandma is ninety years old. Without me, there is no one to take care of her."
The Prime Minister didn't ask him to go.
After his grandmother passed away and the period of mourning expired, he was recruited into Taiwei Li's Mansion and was awarded the title of doctor.
In the fourth year of Yongchu, the Qiang rebelled and ravaged Bing and Liang. The general Deng Zhi thought that the military situation was tense and could not take care of both. He wanted to abandon Liangzhou and concentrate his forces on the north.
So he summoned the ministers for a meeting, and Deng Zhi said: For example, if your clothes are broken, if you repair one broken piece and repair another, one piece will still be intact.
If not, there will be no protection.
Everyone at the meeting agreed. After hearing this, Yu Xu said to Li: "It is said that Gongqing decided to abandon Liangzhou. In my opinion, it is inappropriate." The late emperor worked hard to open up the territory, but now he was afraid of the trouble and threw it away.
Since Liangzhou is lost, then the Third Assistant is regarded as a frontier fortress. If the Third Assistant is a frontier fortress, then the ancestral garden tombs are outside the boundary. This is absolutely unacceptable. As the saying goes: Guanxi produces prime ministers, Guandong produces generals, Liangzhou trains troops and trains bravery, surpassing other states.
Now the Qiang and Hu dare not invade Sanfu because Liangzhou is behind him and is his thorn in the side!
The people of Liangzhou took up arms to defend Liangzhou without any hesitation, because Liangzhou belonged to the Han Dynasty!
If you abandon it and move the people away, and the people are content with their homeland and are unwilling to move, something will happen.
Suppose the heroes gather together and take advantage of the situation to come eastward. Even though there are warriors like Ben and Yu and generals like Taigong, they may not be able to withstand it.
The speaker used the analogy of mending clothes that has yet to be completed. I see it as a ulcer that gets wider and wider and never stops.
Abandoning Liangzhou is not a strategy.
Li said: I didn't expect that.
It’s not like you said that it almost failed in national affairs.
So, what’s a good strategy?
Yu Xu said: There is a commotion in Liangzhou today, and people are uneasy. I am worried that something unexpected will happen.
The nine ministers of the four prefectures should be ordered to recommend several people from their respective states, and all the eldest sons of the Mu Shou Ling should be given official positions. On the surface, it is to reward their merits, but in fact, it is to monitor them and prevent them from causing trouble.
Li thought he was right, and even extended the four prefectures to follow Yu Xu's plan.
So he recruited the heroes of the two states as vassals, and appointed the sons of the shepherds and guardians as ministers to comfort them.
The Deng Zhi brothers were dissatisfied because Yu Xu opposed Deng Zhi's opinions. He wanted to use the official law to frame Yu Xu.
Later, the song thief Ning Ji and thousands of others attacked and killed the chief officials, and continued for years. The state and county could not stop him, so Yu Xu was appointed as the chief song officer.
Some old friends said to Yu Xu with regret: It’s such a shame to go to Chaoge!
Yu Xu said with a smile: "It is my duty to never seek easy things when I want to, and never take refuge in things."
How can one recognize a sharp weapon without encountering twisted roots and disordered joints?
When he arrived, he went to see Maleng, the governor of Hanoi. Maleng encouraged him and said: You are a learned man and should plan national affairs in the court. Why do you come to Chao Ge?
Yu Xu said: On the day I was appointed, many high-ranking officials came to express their condolences and encourage me.
I think a thief can't do anything.
Chaoge is located at the junction of Han and Wei, backed by Taihang, facing the Yellow River, and hundreds of miles away from Aocang. Tens of thousands of people from Qingzhou and Jizhou fled here.
There is no need to worry if thieves don't know how to open warehouses, recruit people, rob the warehouses of weapons, defend the city, and cut off the right hand of the world.
Now, the thieves are in full swing and it is difficult to compete.
Soldiers never tire of deceit. I hope you can give me more soldiers and horses so that I won't be in trouble.
As soon as he took office, he set up three departments to recruit strong men, and asked everyone from the history to the following to be known; those who robbed were the best, those who hurt people and stole were the second, and those who wore mourning clothes but did not work on the family business were the lowest.
A total of more than a hundred people were recruited. Yu Xu hosted a banquet for them, and all of them were exempted from their sins. He made them run into the thieves, lured them to plunder, and set up an ambush to act according to the opportunity, so he killed hundreds of thieves.
They also sent poor people who knew how to sew to make clothes for the thieves, and sewed silk threads on the skirts of the clothes to mark them. When the thieves came in and out of the city, the officers and soldiers would catch them.
The thieves were frightened and dispersed. Everyone calls Yu Xu the god.
Yu Xu was promoted to magistrate of Huai County.
Later, the Qiang invaded Wudu. Empress Dowager Deng was promoted to the prefect of Wudu because of Yu Xu's general's strategy. She was summoned to the Jiade Palace and received many rewards.
Qiang then led thousands of people to stop Yu Xu between Chencang and Xiaogu. Yu Xu immediately stopped his troops and refused to advance. He threatened to send a letter to invite troops and wait for reinforcements to arrive before advancing.
The Qiang knew about it and divided their troops to rob other counties. Because the Qiang soldiers were scattered, Yu Xu marched day and night, doubling his advance for more than a hundred miles.
He ordered the officials to make two stoves each, doubling the number a day, so that the Qiang did not dare to pursue them.
Someone asked: Sun Bin reduces the number of stoves and you increase them. The art of war can only travel thirty miles a day to prevent unexpected events. Now you can travel two hundred miles a day. Why?
Yu Xu said: There are many captive soldiers, but I have few soldiers.
If you walk slowly, you will be easily overtaken; if you walk quickly, you will be caught unawares.
Seeing that my cooking stoves are increasing day by day, the soldiers must have come to pick me up.
There are many people and I move quickly, so the captives dare not chase me.
Sun Bin pretended to be weak, and I pretend to be strong now, because the situations are different.
When they arrived at the county, there were less than 3,000 soldiers and more than 10,000 Qiang soldiers. They besieged Chiting for dozens of days.
Yu Xu ordered the army not to fire strong crossbows, but to quietly fire small crossbows.
Qiang thought that the arrow was weak and could not be reached, so he concentrated his troops to attack quickly.
Yu Xu used twenty strong crossbows to shoot at one person, and all the shots hit. The Qiang soldiers were shocked and retreated.
Therefore, Yu Xu went out of the city to pursue him, killing many people.
The next day, he led the entire army out of the Dongguo Gate and entered the Beiguo Gate. He changed his clothes and turned around for a few weeks. The Qiang people didn't know how many troops Yu Xu had, and they were even more frightened.
Yu Xu was sure that the Qiang thieves would retreat, so he secretly sent more than 500 people to ambush in shallow water, waiting for the Qiang thieves to escape.
The Qiang thieves really ran into the enemy, attacked suddenly, defeated them, and gained a lot. The thieves were defeated and went south to Yizhou.
So Yu Xu observed the terrain, built one hundred and eighty fortifications, recruited the fugitive people, helped the poor, and the county became peaceful.
In the past, transportation was difficult and there was no way for boats and cars. Donkeys and horses can transport only one stone out of five.
Yu Xu himself led his officers and soldiers to inspect the rivers and valleys, from depression to deliberation. Within tens of miles, he chopped rocks and cut wood, opened a grain transport channel, hired laborers, and paid them on a per-person basis. As a result, water transportation was facilitated and more than 40 million yuan was saved every year.
When Yu Xu arrived in the county, there were only ten thousand households.
After cleaning up the chaos and recruiting scattered people, the number increased to more than 40,000 households in two or three years. Salt and rice are plentiful and cheap, ten times as much as before.
Dismissed from office for breaking the law.
In the first year of Yongjian's reign, he replaced Chen Chan as the school captain of Sili.
Within a few months, he impeached Tai Tu Feng Shi, Tai Wei Liu Xi, Zhong Chang Shi Cheng Huang, Chen Bing, Meng Sheng, Li Run, etc. All officials hated him and called him harsh.
Sangong impeached Yu Xu to arrest innocent people in midsummer, which was a disaster for officials.
Yu Xu wrote a letter of complaint saying: Laws and prohibitions are the defenses of society, and punishments are people's spurs.
Nowadays, states promote counties, and counties promote counties. They blame each other, and the people complain. Tolerance is regarded as virtuous, and loyalty is regarded as foolish.
There were many crimes I reported, and the second government was afraid that I would report them, so they framed me.
I will die like a fish, and I will use my corpse to advise you.
Emperor Shun read his memorial and dismissed Tao Dun from his post as Sikong.
At that time, Zhang Fang, the minister in charge, abused his power and accepted bribes. Yu Xu pursued the case in accordance with the law, but was often detained and not allowed to report.
Yu Xu was extremely angry. So he tied himself up and went to see the court captain, and reported: In the past, Emperor Xiaoan appointed Fan Feng, which disrupted the orthodoxy and almost destroyed the country.
Now Zhang Fang is gaining power again, and the country is in trouble again. I can't be with Zhang Fang. I have to tie myself up and come here. Don't let me follow Yang Zhen's path.
In the memorial, Zhang Fang complained in tears before the emperor, and Yu Xu was convicted and sent to Zuo School to do hard labor.
Zhang Fang insisted on killing him. Within two days, he was summoned four times.
The jailer advised Yu Xu to commit suicide, but Yu Xu said: "I would rather put him to death so that people far and near would know about it."
Eunuchs Sun Cheng, Zhang Xian and others knew that Yu Xu had been convicted on duty, so they successively submitted petitions to the emperor to receive them.
Sun Cheng said: When the emperor began to get along with his ministers, he often hated the treacherous ministers and knew that the treacherous ministers would harm the country.
Now that he is the emperor and he is doing this again, how can he be different from the previous emperor?
Yu Xu, the lieutenant of Sili School, was loyal to you and was arrested. Zhang Fang, Chang's attendant, was found guilty of embezzlement and framed Zhongliang instead.
Now the guest star is guarding Yulin, and there are treacherous ministers in the palace.
Zhang Fang should be arrested and sent to prison as soon as possible to prevent changes in the weather.
An edict was issued to release Yu Xu and return his seal and ribbon.
At this time, Zhang Fang was standing behind the emperor. Sun Cheng angrily scolded Zhang Fang and said: "Treacherous minister Zhang Fang, why don't you go down to the palace?"
Zhang Fang had no choice but to run into the east chamber.
Sun Cheng said: Your Majesty, arrest Zhang Fang quickly and don't let him plead with his mother.
The emperor asked all the ministers. Jia Lang, the minister, had always been on good terms with Zhang Fang, which proved that Yu Xu was guilty.
The emperor was a little suspicious and said to Sun Cheng: "I will go out temporarily, I still have to think about it."
So Yu Xu's son Yu Kai and more than a hundred students, holding flags, waited for Gao Fan's car to come, kowtow and bleed, and complained about Yu Xu's injustice.
Gao Fan then told the emperor that Zhang Fang was exiled to the border area for his crimes, and Jia Lang and other six people were either executed or deposed, and Yu Xu was released that day.
Sun Cheng also wrote a letter saying that Yu Xu had meritorious service and his words were generous. The emperor understood and worshiped Yu Xu as Yilang.
A few days later, he was promoted to a scholar.
At this time, the chief official and the two thousand stones used money to redeem the people who committed crimes, which was called "righteous money". They pretended to be saving for the poor, but the guards used it to embezzle.
Yu Xu Shangshu said: Since the first year of the year, the poor people have publicly exposed the officials who accepted more than one million yuan. There has been endless controversy over this, and tens of millions of officials have been relegated and punished, but the three officials and the governor rarely reported it.
Soon, during the Yongping and Zhanghe reigns, the prefectures and counties used money from pawns to lend money to the poor. Sikong investigated and punished him, and all the prefectures and counties were dismissed for the crime.
It is time to follow the rules and regulations of the past and abolish all expedients.
The edict approved Yu Xu's report. The state and county were severely criticized.
Exile, punishment, loss and redemption were banned from now on.
Previously, the chief clerk of Ningyang went to the court to complain that the county magistrate had violated the law, and ignored it for six or seven years.
The master's book wrote: I am your Majesty's son, and Your Majesty is your father.
I have written hundreds of memorials, but in the end I ignored them. How can I go to the Xiongnu Chanyu to complain?
The emperor was furious and showed the memorial to the minister, who judged him to be a treasonous person.
Yu Xu retorted, saying: The chief secretary reported this to the emperor because his father resented him. It is Yousi's mistake to fail to reach the goal.
Stupid people are not enough to be punished.
The emperor took Yu Xu's advice and gave him a spanking.
Therefore, Yu Xu said to all the ministers: "A villain has a grudge. He traveled thousands of miles, cut off his hair and carved his muscles, and made up his mind to complain to the court. You ignored him. Isn't it in line with the righteousness of the ministers?"
What kinship do you have with those corrupt officials, and what hatred do you have against the haters?
I was so ashamed after hearing this.
Yu Xu said again: "Shang Shulang is an important position, the ladder of officialdom. Now some people have seven or eight people in a county, and some have no people in a state. They should be equalized to meet the expectations of the world."
Many of Yu Xu's memorials were mostly adopted.
This offended his relatives many times. He was reprimanded nine times and punished three times, but his upright character remained unyielding until old age. At the beginning of Yongyuan Dynasty, he was promoted to Shangshu Ling and dismissed due to official business. The imperial court missed his loyalty and recruited him again, but he happened to die.
On his deathbed, he said to Zi Yugong: I serve the court with integrity and selflessness, and I have no regrets in everything I do. What I regret is that as a Chao Ge, I killed hundreds of thieves for a long time. How could I not be unjust? Since then, there has not been a single person in the family for more than 20 years. This is because I have been punished by God!
Yu Gong was a talented person, and his official position was supreme as the Party Governor.
◆The biography of Fu Xie, whose courtesy name is Nanrong, was from Lingzhou County, Beidi County.
This character started at a young age, and I admired Nan Rong when he read the Book of Songs: Bai Wanggui's defilement can still be polished off, but what he said cannot be done.
As for the three repetitions, I asked myself to be cautious in my words and deeds, so I changed "Youqi" to Nanrong.
He is eight feet long and has a burly appearance. When he was young, he learned from Taiwei Liu Kuan and was promoted as filial and honest twice.
Hearing that the commander-in-chief who promoted him as Xiaolian died, he abandoned his official post to mourn.
Later, he was appointed as Sima of the Guard Army, and together with Zuo Zhonglang's general Huangfu Song, he attacked Zhang Jiao.
Fu Xie was usually the most evil eunuch. Before leaving, he said to Shangshu: I heard that the disasters of the country are not external, but all happen internally.
Therefore, when Yu Shun succeeded to the throne, he first eliminated the four evil spirits, and then appointed the sixteen prime ministers to show that if the evil people did not go away, the good people would have no way to come in.
Now Zhang Jiao started from Zhao and Wei, and the Yellow Turbans caused chaos in the six states. They all happened in the interior, and then the chaos spread all over the world. I was ordered to lead the troops to attack them. When I first arrived in Yingchuan, I was invincible.
Although the Yellow Turbans were powerful, they were not a cause for concern for the imperial court.
What worries me is that water management does not start from the source, causing the downstream flow to become wider and wider.
The emperor is benevolent and tolerant, but he is merciless in punishing bad people. Therefore, the eunuchs exercise great power, and loyal ministers cannot have any influence.
Zhang Jiao was truly eliminated and the Yellow Turbans surrendered, which made me even more worried.
Why?
Because evil people and upright people cannot be together, just as ice cubes and charcoal cannot be placed together in the same container.
All these illustrate the seriousness of rumors and rumors. If we don't examine the truth of the matter in detail, the incident of loyal ministers committing suicide like Bai Qi can also be seen today.
The emperor should think about Yu Shun's resolute treatment of the four villains, and quickly punish those bad guys who framed the traitors. In this way, the good people will come to the emperor's side, and the traitors will be eliminated.
I have heard that loyal ministers serve their monarch as filial sons serve their parents.
How can a son not serve his father wholeheartedly?
If I am executed by Yu Fuyue for this, it will be a blessing to the country if the emperor can accept a few words from me!
The eunuch Zhao Zhong was extremely angry after reading the book.
When Zhang Jiao was defeated, Fu Xie deserved to be knighted because of his many merits. Zhao Zhong framed him. Emperor Ling still remembered Fu Xie's words, so he was able to avoid the crime and finally appointed him as the captain of Anding.
Dismissed due to illness.
Later he was awarded the title of Yilang.
When the Xiqiang rebelled, Bian Zhang and Han Sui made trouble in Longyou, asking for money and people from the people endlessly.
Situ Cui Lie believed that Liangzhou should be abandoned.
The imperial edict met with hundreds of officials to discuss, but Cui Lie insisted on his opinion.
Fu Xie said sternly: If Situ is killed, the world will be safe.
Shangshu Lang Yang Zan reported that Fu Xie insulted ministers in the court.
Emperor Ling asked Fu Xie about this.
Fu Xie replied: "In the past, Maodun was a great rebel. Fan Kuai was the general. Please lead a hundred thousand people to rampage among the Xiongnu." Ji Bu was extremely angry and wanted to work hard. He did not lose the moral integrity of a minister. It was just a matter of whether his strategy would work or not. Ji Bu also said: "Fan Kuai can be killed."
Now Liangzhou is the center of the world and the country's screen.
When Emperor Gaozu first rose to prominence, he made Qing Shang the captain of Longxi Province, and designated the Northern Territory as his own. Emperor Wu opened up the territory and established the four counties of Wuwei, Jiuquan, Zhangye, and Dunhuang, and cut off the right arm of the Xiongnu.
Now the discord between officials and officials has caused rebellion in one state, causing turmoil in the country and making the emperor restless.
As the prime minister, Cui Lie didn't want to quell the rebellion for the country, but wanted to cede thousands of miles of land. I doubt this idea.
If the barbarians gain this territory, have strong soldiers and sophisticated weapons, and cause rebellion, this will be a great trouble for the world and a deep worry for the country!
If Cui Lie didn't know, it would be a great stupidity; if he knew and said so deliberately, it would be disloyal.
Emperor Ling adopted Fu Xie's opinion.
Because the imperial court highly valued Fu Xie's uprightness, when the minister was vacant, he was expected by everyone.
Soon, Zhao Zhong became the general of chariots and cavalry, and ordered Zhao Zhong to discuss his merits in the crusade against the Yellow Turbans. Zhijinwu Zhenju and others said to Zhao Zhong: Fu Nanrong was in the Eastern Army before. He had merits but was not granted a title. Everyone in the world was disappointed.
Now the general has the important task of advancing the wise and redressing grievances in order to conform to everyone's wishes.
Zhao Zhong accepted his words. He sent his younger brother Chengmen School Captain Zhao Yan to express his yearning.
Zhao Yan said to Fu Xie: "Nan Rong is a little bit polite and I am a regular servant, but Wanhu Hou is not enough for you!"
Fu Xie refused sternly and said: Whether a person succeeds or fails is determined by fate; merit without reward is caused by the times.
Do I, Fu Xie, still want a private reward?
Zhao Zhong was even more resentful, but he was too famous to dare to harm him.
There are also many powerful people who are jealous of him, so they are not allowed to stay in the court and become the governor of Hanyang.
At first, Fan Jin, the general of the county, had the knack of knowing people and promoted Fu Xie as Xiaolian.
Later, Fan Jin was appointed as the prefect of Hanyang. When Fu Xie left, Fan Jin went through the handover procedures with him. After passing the verification, he left. The country and the country were proud of them.
Fan Jin, courtesy name Wenyuan, was from Nanyang.
Fu Xie was good at sympathizing with people, and the rebellious Qiang people were moved by his kindness and enlightenment, and they all surrendered. He cleared the land and cultivated fields and set up more than forty camps to accommodate them.
At this time, the governor Geng Bi appointed Cheng Qiu to be in charge. Cheng Qiu sought personal gain for him and associated with traitors, and the soldiers hated him.
In the fourth year of Zhongping, Geng Bi led soldiers from six counties to conquer the Kingdom of Jincheng, Han Sui and others.
Fu Xie knew that Geng Bi had broken people's trust and must fail.
The admonishment said: The emperor has not been in power for a long time, and the people do not know how to educate him.
Confucius said: To make people fight without first teaching them is to abandon them.
Now he leads untrained men across the dangers of Dalong. There will be ten dangers and ten dangers. When the thieves hear that the army is coming, they will surely unite as one.
The border soldiers are brave and difficult to resist; the newly organized troops are not harmonious among the officers and soldiers. If internal changes occur, it will be too late to regret it.
It is better to let the army rest for a period of time, improve discipline, and strictly enforce rewards and punishments.
When the thieves learn that our army is lax, they must think that our army is cowardly, and they will surely fall apart due to their internal struggle for power.
Then lead the trained troops to defeat the disintegrating thieves, and then sit back and wait for victory to come.
Now if you don't seek to be foolproof and take a path that is bound to fail, I won't do it for you.
Geng Bi refused to listen.
When the troops arrived at Didao, there were indeed rebels. They killed Cheng Qiu first and then Geng Bi. The thieves then surrounded Hanyang. There were few soldiers in the city and no food, but Fu Xie still held on.
At this time, thousands of Hu cavalry from the north followed the bandits to attack Hanyang County. They all cherished Fu Xie's kindness for a long time. They kowtowed outside the city and asked to send Fu Xie back to his hometown.
His son Fu Gan was only thirteen years old and lived in an official residence from his father.
Knowing that his father had an upright temperament and awe-inspiring righteousness, I was afraid that he would not bend his will and avoid death. He advised his father: "The country is in chaos, which makes it difficult for you to be in the court."
Now that the world has rebelled, your troops are not strong enough to defend themselves. The Qiang and Hu people in the countryside have received your kindness in the past. They want you to abandon the county and return to your hometown. I hope you will agree to them.
Return to the village, command and train the rebellious Qiang and Hu, meet virtuous people, mentor them, and save the world.
Before he finished speaking, Fu Xie sighed excitedly, called Fu Qian by his nickname and said: Don't do it, do you know that I will definitely die? "Zuo Zhuan" says: The Shengda Festival is the second Shou Festival.
Generally speaking, it is not easy to understand the principles and follow the rules naturally, but it can be done by observing the rules. Moreover, the Shang Dynasty was tyrannical, and Boyi died without eating Zhou millet. Confucius said that he was a wise man in ancient times.
Now the imperial court is no worse than Shang Zhou, how can I surpass Boyi in virtue?
Chaos in the world cannot nourish Haoran's righteousness. I usually receive a salary from the state, but when there is a war, I want to run away again!
Where can I go? Must die here.
You have talent, give it a try! Encourage it!
Chief Registrar Yang Hui is my Cheng Ying, you can trust him.
Fu Gan choked up and could no longer speak, and everyone around him was in tears.
Huang Yan, the governor of Jiuquan, the first envoy of the kingdom, advised Fu Xie: "The situation of success or failure is already clear as the palm of my hand."
The first to raise an army was to achieve the great deeds of an overlord, and to the bottom was the meritorious deeds of Yi Yin and Lu Shang.
The world is no longer the world of the Han Dynasty. Does Mr. Fu mean to be our teacher?
Fu Xie pressed his sword and cursed Huang Yan: "You were once a minister holding the emperor's talisman, but you spoke for a thief?"
He commanded the troops to march from left to right and died in battle. His posthumous title is Zhuangjiehou.
Fu Qian was well-known and had reached the rank of Governor of Fufeng.
◆In the biography of Gai Xun, Gai Xun was named Yuan Gu and was a native of Guangzhi County, Dunhuang County.
From generation to generation, the family is worth two thousand stones.
He was initially elected as Xiaolian and appointed as the chief historian of Hanyang.
At this time, the prefect of Wuwei relied on powerful officials, was corrupt, violent, and had no scruples, and was engaged in Wudu Su Zhenghe's investigation of his crimes.
Liangzhou Governor Liang Hu was afraid of his noble relatives and wanted to kill Su Zhenghe to avoid the guilt of Wuwei Prefect, so he asked Gai Xun for advice.
Gai Xun usually had a grudge against Su Zhenghe, and some people advised Gai Xun to take revenge on him.
Gai Xun said: No.
It is unfaithful to kill a good person because of something; it is unkind to take advantage of others when they are in danger to attack them.
So he admonished Liang Hu and said: "I originally wanted to eat the eagle and the kite because I wanted to get the bird of prey. Now that I have the bird of prey and I cook and kill it, what's the use?"
Liang Hu accepted his words.
Su Zhenghe was happy that he was saved from being killed and ran to Gai Xun to thank him.
Gai Xun refused to receive him and said, "I am offering advice for Liang Shijun, not for Su Zhenghe."
He still hates Su Zhenghe as before.
In the first year of Zhongping, the Qiang Hu and Bian Zhang from the north invaded Longyou, and the governor Zuo Chang cut off tens of millions due to the opportunity of the war.
Gai Xun strongly remonstrated, but Zuo Chang became angry, so he ordered Gai Xun to station in Ayang to resist the bandit's elite troops, hoping to use military force to incriminate him. Gai Xun had many military exploits.
Bian Zhang and others attacked Jincheng and killed the governor Chen Yi. Gai Xun persuaded Zuo Chang to rescue him.
Zuo Chang didn't listen. Bian Zhang and others then surrounded Zuo Chang in Ji. Zuo Chang was afraid and asked Gai Xun to go.
Gai Xun first stationed himself in Ayang with Xin Zeng and Kong Chang. When Zuo Chang's urgent military message arrived, Xin Zeng and Kong Chang hesitated and refused to go.
Gai Xun said angrily: "In the past, Zhuang Jia supervised Sima Rangju's army. Because he did not arrive on time, Rangzhi acted according to military law and killed him.
Is what we are doing now more valuable than overseeing the army in ancient times?
Xin Zeng and others were afraid and had no choice but to listen to Gai Xun.
Gai Xun immediately mobilized his troops to rescue Zuo Chang.
When he arrived in Ji, he accused Bian Zhang and others of treason.
They all said: If Ambassador Zuo had listened to you and led troops to attack me, I would have been able to correct my evil ways. Now my sin is too serious and I cannot surrender!
So he withdrew the siege and left.
Zuo Chang was summoned for the crime of cutting and intercepting, and he was replaced by Fufeng Song Xiao.
Song Xiao suffered from the invasion and rebellion of foreign tribes in the border areas, and told Gai Xun: Liangzhou has repeatedly resisted riots because of its backward culture and lack of scholars.
Now I want to write more "The Classic of Filial Piety" so that every household can learn it. This may help people know etiquette and justice.
Gai Xun remonstrated: In the past, when the Grand Duke was granted the title of Qi, Cui Zhu killed Duke Zhuang of Qi, Bo Qin was granted the title of Lu, and Qing's father attacked and killed Duke Min of Lu.
Are there still a shortage of scholars in these two countries?
Don't rush to find a solution to the problem now. Doing such unrealistic things can not only make a state angry, but also make the court laugh. I don't know this is a good idea.
Song Xiao refused to listen to him and went to the court to implement it. As expected, Gai Xun's words were not followed, so he was criticized by the imperial edict and summoned for being guilty of being conceited.
At this time, the rebel Qiang surrounded Xia Yu, the Qiang guard captain. Gai Xun and the prefectures and counties jointly sent troops to rescue Xia Yu, but were defeated by the Qiang soldiers when they arrived in Hu.
Gai Xun gathered more than a hundred defeated soldiers to form Yuli's formation.
The elite Qiang cavalry attacked from both sides, and many soldiers died.
Gai Xun was injured in three places, but he stood firm, pointed at the wooden sign and said: "Kill me here."
In the sentence, I planted Qiang Dianwu. I had received Gai Xun's kindness on weekdays, so I stopped everyone with weapons and said: Gai Changshi is a wise man. Killing him is called deceiving the sky.
Gai Xun raised his head and cursed: "You are a rebel, what do you know?" Come and kill me!
The soldiers looked at me and I looked at you, shocked.
Dian Wu jumped off his horse and asked Gai Xun to mount his horse. Gai Xun refused and was captured by the bandit soldiers.
Qiang Rong admired Gai Xun's righteousness. He was brave enough to conquer the three armies and did not dare to harm him, so he was sent back to Hanyang.
Later, the governor Yang Yong recommended Gai Xun to concurrently serve as the prefect of Hanyang.
At that time, there was a famine and people were cannibalizing. Gai Xun allocated food to relieve the famine. He first took out his own food to set an example and saved more than a thousand hungry people.
Later, he resigned from the official position and was conscripted as the captain of the school to fight against the captives.
Emperor Ling summoned him and asked: Why is the world so rebellious?
Gai Xun said: It was caused by the eunuch's children.
At this time, Jian Shuo, the eunuch and commander of the military academy, was standing by. Emperor Ling turned back to Jian Shuo. Jian Shuo was afraid and didn't know how to persuade Gai Xun, so he hated Gai Xun.
Emperor Ling said to Gai Xun again: "I have concentrated the troops in Pingtang. How about taking out more of the hidden treasures and giving them to the soldiers?"
Gai Xun said: I heard that the late king Mingde did not show troops.
Now the enemy is far away and arrayed nearby. This is not enough to show the country's courage and determination. It is just a waste of force. Emperor Ling said: Very good.
It's a pity that it's too late to see you. My ministers have never said such things!
At that time, Gai Xun, Zong Zheng, Liu Yu, and Assistant Military Colonel Yuan Shao were in charge of the emperor's security forces.
Gai Xun said to Liu Yu and Yuan Shao: I have seen the emperor many times. The emperor is very smart, but he is just deceived by the left and right.
If everyone worked together to kill the eunuchs, recruit and select handsome talents, revive the Han Dynasty, and retire with great success, wouldn't it be a great thing?
Liu Yu and Yuan Shao had also discussed this matter on weekdays, so they contacted each other. Before they could take action, Sili Colonel Zhang Wen recommended Gai Xun to serve as Jing Zhaoyin.
Emperor Ling still wanted to receive him. Jian Shuo and others were afraid of Gai Xun, so they all persuaded the emperor to approve Zhang Wen's memorial, so Gai Xun was appointed as Jing Zhaoyin.
At that time, Chang'an ordered Yang Dang, whose father was a regular servant. Relying on his father's power, he engaged in corruption and misbehavior. Gai Xun found out that Yang Dang had embezzled more than tens of millions.
The noble relatives all interceded for him, but Gai Xun refused to listen. He reported all the facts to the emperor, and involved Yang Dang's father. He ordered strict execution, and Gai Xun was powerful in the capital.
At that time, Xiaohuangmen Jingzhao was highly regarded as the Shang Pharmacy Supervisor and was favored by the crown prince. Because of Jian Shuo's request, the crown prince asked Gai Xun to promote Gao Xun's highly respected son Gao Jin as Xiaolian, but Gai Xun refused.
Some people say: The Crown Prince is the deputy lord and the heir to the throne, Gao Wang is the Crown Prince's favorite, and Jian Shuo is the Emperor's favorite, but you are unwilling to do this good thing. As the saying goes, "Three grudges make a house." Three grudges gather together. Aren't you afraid?
Gai Xun said: "Electing worthy people to be filial and honest is to serve the country. If you are not a worthy person, even if you don't elect them, you will not regret it even if you die!"
Although Gai Xun was a local official and had military and state secrets, Emperor Ling often issued edicts to ask him.
He received many rewards and trusted him very much. No other minister in the court could compare with him.
After the death of Emperor Ling, Dong Zhuo deposed the young emperor and killed the Queen Mother He. Gai Xun wrote to Dong Zhuo: In the past, Yi Yin banished Taijia and welcomed Taijia back to the throne three years later. Huo Guang welcomed Liu Zhi, the king of Changyi, and deposed Liu Zhi because of his promiscuity and established Emperor Xuan.
Congratulations. The mourners have entered your house. Isn't it worth being careful?
Dong Zhuo accepted the letter and was mentally afraid of him.
Gaixun was appointed as Yilang.
At this time, General Huangfu Song of the Left had 30,000 elite troops stationed in Fufeng. Gai Xun secretly planned with him to prepare for a crusade against Dong Zhuo.
When Huangfu Song was also recruited, Gai Xun believed that his troops were too weak to act independently, so he returned to the capital with Huangfu Song.
There was no one among the officials from Gongqing on down who did not bow to Dong Zhuo. Only Gai Xun bowed his head and resisted Dong Zhuo. Those who saw him turned pale with fright.
Dong Zhuo asked Situ Wang Yun: If you want to get a capable Sili captain, who can do the job?
Wang Yun said: Only Gai Jingzhao.
Dong Zhuo said: This person is wise, but he cannot hold such a confidential position.
So he was appointed as the captain of the Yue Cavalry School.
Dong Zhuo did not want him to command the imperial security forces for a long time, so he appointed him as the prefect of Yingchuan.
Before he arrived at the county, he was called back to the capital.
At this time, Henan Yin Zhu Genjun was planning military affairs for Dong Zhuo.
Dong Zhuo rebuked Zhu Quanjun and said: I am victorious in every battle and I am dedicated to my affairs. Don't talk nonsense, even my knife will get dirty.
Gai Xun said: In the past, a shrewd emperor like Wu Ding still asked for advice from others. He said to Fu Shuo: Enlightenment is the heart, and my heart is fertile.
Dong Zhuo said: Just kidding.
Gai Xun said: I have never heard that the angry curse can be said to be a joke.
Dong Zhuo then apologized to Zhu Quanjun.
Although Gai Xun was strong and unyielding, he hated Dong Zhuo in his heart. He was dissatisfied and died of gangrene. Year fifty-one.
The will does not accept Dong Zhuo's funeral gifts. Dong Zhuo wanted to pretend to be tolerant and magnanimous, so he asked Dongyuan to give him the secret weapon of Dongyuan, chariots, horses and silk, as a gift to help him survive and die.
Buried in Anling.
His son Gaishun was promoted to prefect of Yongyang.
◆Zang Hongchuan, whose courtesy name is Ziyuan, was born in Sheyang County, Guangling County.
Father Zang Min is talented.
In the first year of Xiping, Xu Zhao, a monster thief from Kuaiji, raised troops and called himself a general. He appointed his father Xu Sheng as the king of Yue. He conquered the city and captured tens of thousands of people.
The imperial court appointed Zang as the governor of Yangzhou.
Zang Min led Chen Wei, the governor of Danyang, to defeat Xu Zhao.
Xu Zhao still gathered his troops to harm the people.
Zang Min and others sent troops to conquer and fought for three years before finally pacifying Xu Zhao, capturing Xu Zhao and his son, and killing thousands of people.
Zang Min was promoted to be the envoy to the Xiongnu Zhonglang General.
In the fifteenth year of Zang Hong's year, because of his father's contribution to the country, he was appointed Dong Zilang, who was famous in the Imperial Academy.
His physical appearance is different from ordinary people.
He was promoted to be filial and honest, and he was appointed as a complement to Lang Qiuchang.
At the end of Zhongping Dynasty, he resigned and returned home. The prefect Zhang Chao asked him to be a meritorious official.
At this time, Dong Zhuo killed the emperor and wanted to seize the Han Dynasty.
Zang Hong said that Zhang Chao said: The prefect has been favored by the imperial court for generations, and his brothers have all served as high counties. Now the royal family is in danger, and thieves and ministers are watching. This is really the time for those who are loyal to the country to serve.
Now that the county is still intact and the people are prosperous, if the war drums sound, we can gather 20,000 people and lead them to kill the national traitors and hold high the flag of righteousness for the world. Wouldn't it be great?
Zhang Chao agreed with his opinion and went to Chenliu with Zang Hongxi to discuss with his brother Zhang Miao.
Zhang Miao first said to Zhang Chao: I heard that you are a prefect and leave government affairs to Zang Hong. What kind of person is Zang Hong?
Zhang Chao said: Zang Hong is a strange man in the country. He is more talented and resourceful than me.
Zhang Miao immediately talked to Zang Hong and greatly appreciated him.
He sent Zang Hong to see Liu Dai, the governor of Yanzhou, and Kong Danyou, the governor of Yuzhou, and they both became close friends with each other.
Zhang Miao originally had an agreement. When Zhang Chao arrived, he made the decision, so he held a meeting with the herdsmen in Suanzao.
They set up a altar and prepared to make an alliance, but they gave in to each other. No one dared to go first, and everyone recommended Zang Hong.
Zang Hong then raised his clothes to the altar, expressed his blood and made an alliance, saying: The Han Dynasty was unlucky, and the rules and regulations of the court were in chaos. The traitor Dong Zhuo took the opportunity to cause harm, and the disaster fell on the emperor and poisoned the people.
The most terrifying thing is that the Han Dynasty fell and the country was ruined.
Liu Dai, the governor of Yanzhou, Kong Qianyou, the governor of Yuzhou, Zhang Miao, the governor of Chenliu, Qiao Mao, the governor of Dongjun, Zhang Chao, the governor of Guangling, etc., gathered volunteers to fight against the national calamity.
All those who are in our alliance will work together to fulfill the loyalty of our ministers and kill their heads as they please without any second thought.
If he violates the oath, he will die and die without any descendants.
The emperor, the queen, the earth, the ancestors and the gods all learn from each other.
Zang Hong's poems were so passionate that everyone who listened to them got excited.
From then on, each army hesitated, and no one dared to go first, resulting in insufficient military supplies and the disintegration of the soldiers.
At this time, Gongsun Zan, the commander-in-chief of the imperial army, had a disagreement with Liu Yu, the commander-in-chief. Zhang Chao sent Zang Hong to find Liu Yu to discuss the plan to defeat the bandits. When they walked to the river, they encountered a war between You and Ji, and the road was blocked, so they went to Yuan Shao's place.
Yuan Shao met Zang Hong and admired his talent. He became friends with Zang Hong and asked Zang Hong to act as the governor of Qingzhou.
The former governor, Jiao He, had a false reputation and was a master of empty words.
At this time, yellow scarf thieves were scurrying everywhere, and the people in Qingzhou were rich and had many troops and equipment.
Jiao He wanted to go to the capital with various allies, but before he left, the Yellow Turban thieves had already arrived, conquered the city and massacred the people.
Jiao He didn't know anything about military affairs, so he just invited the witch Zhu Shi to his house to pray for God's blessing.
He was also afraid that yellow turban thieves would cross the river during the freezing period, so he ordered many ice-trap pills to be made and placed in the river.
His tribe was disbanded and Jiao He also died of illness.
Zang Hong gathered together to comfort the scattered tribes, and the people were at peace.
In the second year of his reign, Yuan Shao was afraid of his incompetence and appointed him as the prefect of Dongjun, with his capital in Dongwuyang.
At this time, Cao Cao surrounded Zhang Chao in Yongqiu, and the situation was very dangerous.
Zhang Chao said to the soldiers: Zang Hong is the only one who will come to save me today.
Some people say: Yuan Shao and Cao Cao are getting along well, and Zang Hong is Yuan Shao's man. I'm afraid Zang Hong will not come far away, and he will bring disaster instead of good fortune.
Zhang Chao said: Ziyuan is a righteous man in the world and will never deviate from his original aspirations. He may be held hostage by force, but there is nothing we can do!
Zang Hong began to hear that Zhang Chao was surrounded, cried barefoot, and prepared his troops to rescue Zhang Chao.
Thinking that his troops were too weak, he asked Yuan Shao for troops, but Yuan Shao refused. Zhang Chao's defense was breached and Zhang Chao's entire clan was killed.
Zang Hong resented Yuan Shao and severed ties with him.
Yuan Shao sent troops to surround Zang Hong, but could not capture it after many years. Yuan Shao sent Zang Hong to write a letter to Zang Hong from Chen Lin, a county resident, explaining the blessings and misfortunes to Zang Hong, and blaming each other with personal kindness and national justice.
Zang Hong replied: Missing each other after farewell often occurs when we are asleep.
We are not far apart, but each of us has taken a different path, and each of us has a different mood. How can we describe it in just one or two sentences?
A few days ago, I promised you that I would never give up, and I sent you frequent letters, describing the good and bad fortunes, gains and losses, and public and personal friendships, which were the most cordial.
How could a talented person like you, Botong Classic, be so secretive as to be ignorant of my aspirations?
Therefore, I did not reply to you. I also wanted you to understand my character from a distance.
Recently I received a handwritten letter from you, which was quoted a lot. Although I don’t want to reply, you said it sincerely and I shouldn’t ignore it rashly.
I am a villain, with no great ambitions. Because I was serving abroad, I was acquainted with Duke Yuan. I was deeply gracious and affectionate, and was able to seize the big state. Who is willing to go back and be slaughtered by myself today?
Every time I went to the city for military parade, I saw Yuan Gong's flags and drums, looked at Yuan Gong's tent in the distance, and the old friend's repeated dealings, I was even more excited. I held the string and pointed the arrow, and burst into tears!
Why?
I personally feel that I have no regrets in assisting Mr. Yuan. Mr. Yuan treated me much better than he treated his peers.
When they were first appointed, they were all focused on national affairs: clearing out the rebellion of foreign invaders and jointly supporting the royal family.
Unexpectedly, the state was invaded and the county general was in trouble. I asked Yuan Gong for more troops, but he was rejected. I resigned and was detained. My old leader was exterminated because of this.
I have such a small selfishness and have not received sympathy. How can I resume my friendship and seriously damage my reputation of loyalty and filial piety?
So I waved my hand with sorrow, wiped away my tears and said goodbye to him.
If Mr. Yuan is a little bit loyal and forgiving, and greets you at the side table when he comes, but restrains himself and blames himself when he leaves, then I will support Jizha's ambition to escape from the throne, and we will not fight today.
Once upon a time, Zhang Jingming ascended the throne and pledged his blood as an alliance, and went back and forth with letters. Finally, he made Han Fu give up his seal, and Yuan Gong gained control of Jizhou.
Later, Zhang Jingming was destroyed just because he worshiped the leader of the Zhang Dynasty and was given a title and passed down the throne. He was not given a chance to change his ways and was destroyed.
Lu Feng first attacked Dong Zhuo and came to ask for help from Yuan Gong. He refused to send troops and said goodbye and returned to Luoyang. What crime did he commit?
But Duke Yuan actually sent troops to kill him. Liu Zihuang was ordered to go on an envoy, but his request to resign his mission was not approved after the time limit was exceeded. He was afraid of the emperor and cherished his relatives, so he used deception to seek return. It can be said that he was determined to be loyal and filial, but not overbearing. He was also killed without any reduction.
The officer who wanted to be promoted was killed in violation of his will. This was the benefit of Duke Yuan, not the wish of the wanderer.
Therefore, in the past, as a warning, sticking to a poor city was nothing more than a gentleman fleeing and not going to the enemy's country.
I have seen the siege for a long time, but there is no relief, and the reinforcements have not arrived. I feel the love of marriage, and by extension my lifelong friendship, I think it is better to live under the righteousness than to die upholding the righteousness.
In the past, Yan Zi did not surrender because Cui Zhu had a white sword on his neck, and the Nanshi family did not bend their writing to survive because Tai Shi died. Therefore, the image will be passed down from person to person and the name will be passed down to future generations.
What's more, if I hold the golden city firmly and use the bravery of the people and soldiers to use three years' savings for one year, to relieve the sleepy, make up for the lack, and please the world, why should I use it to build houses and plow the land instead?
But fearing that the autumn wind would blow up the dust, Bo Han would drive his horse south, Zhang Yang and Fei Yan would work together to cause chaos, and the alarm would be heard on the northern border, and the brothers and sisters would be asked to return to save themselves.
Therefore, Mr. Yuan should learn from his peers at this time, roll up his flag and retreat. He has been angry for too long and it is not appropriate to expose his majesty to my city.
You ridiculed me for relying on Montenegro for rescue. Why don't you remember the Yellow Turban's unity?
In the past, Emperor Gaozu collected Peng Yue in the vast wilderness, and Guangwu established his foundation in the green forest. In the end, he could either receive orders from heaven or revive the imperial industry.
If it can help the monarch prosper and become a king, then what does it matter?
What's more, I personally signed the seal and worked with him!
Farewell to Kong Zhang, I invite you to help outside the country, Zang Hong surrenders to your relatives; you entrust Yuan Shao, and my name is Chang'an.
You say that my body and reputation will be destroyed, and I will also laugh at you that your life and death will be unknown. We are the same but we are different, we work hard, what else is there to say?
Yuan Shao read Zang Hong's reply and knew that he had no intention of surrender, so he increased his troops and attacked quickly.
There was no food in the city, and there were no reinforcements outside. Zang Hong himself was probably going to die, so he called the officials and said: "Yuan Shao is unethical and has evil intentions. He also does not rescue my general Zang Hong. I have no choice but to die out of righteousness."
I think you were fine and suffered this disaster in vain. You can lead your wives and children out of the city before the city is broken.
The generals all cried and said: "You and the Yuan family have no quarrel before. For the sake of the general, we are in such danger. How can we bear to leave you?"
At first, they dug up mice and boiled tendons to eat, but then they had nothing to eat. The chief clerk brought out three buckets of rice from the kitchen and asked him to cook some porridge for Zang Hong. Zang Hong said, "How can I eat alone?"
Let it be cooked into porridge, and be eaten by all the soldiers.
He also killed his beloved concubine and gave it to the generals to eat.
The soldiers and generals were in tears and could not raise their heads.
Seventy or eighty men and women died together, and no one betrayed them.
The city was broken and Zang Hong was captured alive.
Yuan Shaosheng opened the curtains, and all the generals in the assembly met with Zang Hong.
Said: Why is Zang Hong so disobedient!
Are you convinced today?
Zang Hong's eyes widened in anger and he said: "Yuan Yuan was a minister of the Han Dynasty, four generations and five princes, and he was deeply favored. Now that the imperial court is weak, he has no intention of helping others in danger. Instead, he intends to take advantage of the opportunity to achieve his ulterior motives." Kill many loyal and good people to establish your own treacherous power.
I saw with my own eyes that the general called Zhang Chenliu his brother, so my prince Zhang Chao should also call him his brother. He could not work together to eliminate harm for the country, but had an army and watched others beheaded.
It's a pity that my troops are not strong enough to avenge Mr. Zhang. What does it mean to surrender!
Yuan Shaoben loved Zang Hong and thought that as long as he surrendered, he would be forgiven. After seeing his passionate words, he knew that he would never be used by him, so he ordered him to be killed.
Chen Rong, a native of Zang Hong's county, was a young scholar. He envied Zang Hong's character and became the Prime Minister of Dongjun with him.
Before the city was broken, Zang Hong sent him to Yuan Shao.
Zang Hong was captured after the city was broken. When the generals were meeting, Chen Rong was present. Seeing that Zang Hong was about to die, he stood up and said to Yuan Shao: The general is carrying out a major event and wants to wipe out violence from the world, but he kills the loyal and righteous people first. Is this in line with God's will?
Zang Hong raised his troops for the sake of the county general, how to kill him!
Yuan Shao was so ashamed that he had Chen Rong taken out and said, "You are not one of Zang Hong's group. Why are you doing this in vain?"
Chen Rong turned around and said: Does benevolence and righteousness have a fixed place? If you practice benevolence and righteousness, you are a gentleman; if you do not practice benevolence and righteousness, you are a villain.
Today I would rather die on the same day as Zang Hong than be born on the same day as your general!
Therefore he was also killed.
Everyone sitting there sighed. Whisper: Why kill two martyrs in one day?
The historian commented: Cao Cao surrounded Zhang Chao in Yongqiu, and Zang Hong was extremely moved and indignant. It was so pitiful to see him crying barefoot, arranging his uniform, and calling for troops to rescue him!
What heroes pursue is probably different from the thoughts of those who uphold justice, right?
As for those who conspire, collude with each other, and have deceitful tricks to show off, they are all based on interests and interests.
What's more, Yongqiu City in a corner is already very dangerous. When Cao Cao and Yuan Shao were on good terms, Zang Hongkong wanted to use the power of foreign enemies to relieve Zhang Chao's crisis.
Those who fight over small things and become angry are called angry teachers. It is impossible to win a battle, and military strategists should prevent it.
It can be said that Zang Hong once applied for Baoxu to Qin to beg for an army, cried in the court of Qin, and asked Qin to save Chu. However, the application for Baoxu was successful. Qin sent troops to help Chu defeat Wu, but Zang Hong failed to achieve his goal.
